Welcome to this HR administrator AZ 104 practice question series. In this video,
we will be going through 150 exam style questions focused on the key admin
responsibilities in regards to all services which includes identity,
networking, storage, compute, governance and monitoring. And just like Azure
itself, this doesn't stop here. This session is part of a complete series
with over 400 questions designed to strengthen your core admin skills and
boost your confidence for the exam. Every question includes a simplified
exam focused explanation so you can understand the concepts behind the correct answer, not just memorize facts.
So stay focused, take notes, and let's get you ready to ace the AZ 104 exam
with confidence. You download an Azure resource manager template based on an existing virtual
machine. The template will be used to deploy 100 virtual machines. You need to
modify the template to reference an administrative password. You must prevent the password from being
stored in plain text. What should you create to store the password? Your
options are Azure storage account and access policy, Azure key vault and
access policy, Azure AD identity protection and access policy,
recovery services vault and backup policy.
Whenever there is a requirement to store passwords in Azure then you should look
for Azure key wault in the options and in this case only one option which is
option B has that. So the correct answer is option B Azure key and access policy.
Azure keywalt is one of several key management solutions in Azure. It can be
used to securely store and tightly control access to tokens, passwords,
certificates, API keys and other secrets. In this case, the virtual
machine will need to access the vault to retrieve password. So you will need to
create a vault access policy as well. That is why the correct answer is option
B which is a combination of creating an Azure key vault and creating an access
policy which gives the virtual machine access to that key vault.
Question number two, you plan to deploy three virtual machines named V M1, VM2
and VM3. The virtual machines will host a web app named app one. You need to
ensure that at least two virtual machines are available. If a single Azure data center becomes unavailable,
what should you deploy? Your options are each virtual machine in a separate
availability zone, all three virtual machines in a single availability zone,
all virtual machines in a single availability set, each virtual machine
in a separate availability set. Now all the options are revolving around
availability zones and availability sets. So let's start with understanding
what availability set is. Availability sets are used to protect
applications from hardware failures within an Azure data center.
So any option containing availability set will not provide you with availability to protect against data
center failure which leaves us with only two options that is option A and option
B. Availability zone does provide you with protection against a data center
failure. However, the requirement here is that at least two virtual machines
should be available. So the correct answer is option A. You should deploy
all virtual machines in separate availability zones.
Your company has virtual machines hosted in Microsoft Azure. The VMs are located
in a single Azure virtual network named VNET 1. The company has users that work
remotely. The remote workers require access to VMs on VNET 1. You need to
provide access for the remote workers. What should you do? Your options are
configure a site to-sightVPN, configure a pointto-sightVPN,
configure a multi-sightVPN, configure a VNET to VNETVPN.
Since the requirement is to have a connection from an individual remote worker's computer to VNET one, the
correct answer is you'll need to configure a point to siteVPN also called
as P2SVPN. Now if the requirement would have been
that users from corporate network should be able to access resources in bet one
then you would have configured side to sidevpn as you are establishing connectivity between two sides. So you
need to be very careful in terms of the keywords that are mentioned in the question as a slight change in the
keyword makes the options incorrect.
So the correct answer in this case is option B. Configure a pointto-sightVPN.
Question number four. You have an Azure virtual machine VM1 that runs Windows
Server 2022. You save VM1 as a template named template 1 to the Azure resource manager
library. You plan to deploy a virtual machine named VM2 from template one.
Which of the following you need to configure during the deployment of VM2? You need to choose two options. Your
options are resource group, operating system, virtual machine size,
administrator username. The correct answers are option A and
option D, resource group and administrator username. as both of these
are not retained when you create a template from virtual machine.
Question number five, your company wants to share the JSON files stored in a
container inside a storage account. What is the correct URL for the file called
employee data.json? Your storage account name is monthly
report. Your container name is May 2023 and your file name is employee
data.json. Now there are four options on your screen.
So the correct answer is option B which is highlighted on your screen.
Now let's look at a bit more about this option in explanation section. When you
your account is created with standard endpoints, you can easily construct the URL for an object in Azure storage by
appending the object's location in the storage account to the endpoint. For
example, the URL for a blob will be something like what you can see on my screen. Now at the bottom of my screen
you can see a table which lists the standard endpoint for
each of the Azure storage services. You can see when depending on the storage
service the endpoint does change. So there can be multiple variations to this
question. I strongly suggest you to go through this table and try to understand
what is the difference in the different endpoints for different storage services.
Overall it's almost same core.windows.net Net is there in every
storage service and depending on the type of storage service you are provisioning the fourth last letter
keeps on changing and at the start you always have the name of your storage account.
Question number six. A company needs to connect their onremise data centers to
Azure. They have huge workloads that need to regularly transfer between an
onpremise data center and HR. The company wants to avoid sending data
over the public internet for security reasons. Which of the following options should the company opt to establish this
connection? I will stress on the keyword you need to
avoid the public internet for security reasons. Now let's look at the options.
Create a pointto-sight connection. Create a site to sight connection.
Create an express route connection. Create a VNET to VNET connection. The
key word to answer this question is they need to avoid public internet for security reason. Whenever there is a
requirement to connect onremise network to Azure A and you need to avoid connectivity over public internet then
look for express route in the options. So the correct answer in this case is option C. Create an express route
connection. As you can see on my screen, the definition says express route
connections don't go over public internet. This allows express route connections to offer more reliability,
faster speeds, consistence, latencies, and higher security than typical
connections over the internet. Now if you are interested in reading more about
express route connection how they are set up there is a link on my screen. You can browse through this link and read
more about it in detail. Moving on to next question.
Your company wants to move an entire solution to Azure. Due to security
constraints company wants to restrict creation of all resources in a particular region. Which Azure service
can be used to achieve this requirement? Your options are Azure policy, Azure
monitor, Azure availability zone, Azure web apps.
Now common use cases for Azure policy includes implementing governance for
resource consistency, regulatory compliance, security, cost
management. So the correct answer is option A, Azure policy.
Some of the common examples can be restrict resource regions which is what
is being asked in this question. You can even block certain resource type or
restrict VM size. Refer to the link on my screen to read
more about some of the common policies in Azure.
We will have more questions later in the series around Azure policy structure because there will be few questions
around Azure policies in the Azure administrator exam. Question number eight. A company has a
Azure subscription which contains resource group named RG1 which is set to
Australia east location. RG1 is used to host temporary resources and contains
resources shown below. Now there are some resources that are mentioned in this table and then in the next column
is the type of the resources and then it's the location where these resources are hosted.
SQL D02 which is a SQL server in Azure VM is backed up to RSV25
which is a recovery services vault. When a user tries to delete RG1 which is the
resource group from Azure portal the deletion fails. What is the first need
to take to ensure a successful deletion?
Your options are delete storage account SA00004, restart VM2,
stop backup of SQL D02, stop VM2.
So the right answer is stop backup of SQL D02.
Let's look at the explanation behind choosing this option in more detail. First,
whenever a resource group is deleted, then all the child resources are also deleted. And in this case, we have a
recovery services vault as a child resource. You cannot delete a recovery
services vault with any of the following dependencies. The vault contains protected data
sources such as IASVM, SQL databases or Azure file shares. The vault contains
backup data. If it contains backup data, once the backup data is deleted, it will
go into soft delete state. If it contains the data in soft delete
state,
if it has registered storage accounts. So this is the reason to choose the
correct option in this case. Moving on to next question. A company
needs to identify idle and underutilized Azure virtual machines which can be
changed to a less costly service tier. What should the company use?
Your options are file storage, Azure advisor,
Azure monitor, customer insights.
The correct answer is option B. Azure Advisor. Azure Advisor helps you
optimize and reduce your overall Azure spend by identifying idle and
underutilized resources. You can get cost recommendations from the cost tab
on the advisor dashboard. You can refer to the link on my screen
to understand the different type of recommendations made by Azure Advisor when it comes to cost optimization.
This includes shutdown recommendations, resizable SKU recommendations, and many
more. Question number 10. You have an Azure
subscription named subscription one. You have 5TB of data that you need to
transfer to subscription one. You plan to use Azure import export job. What can
you use as the destination of the imported data? Your options are Azure
file storage, Azure data factory, Azure Cosmos DB, Azure SQL database.
The correct answer is option A, Azure file storage. It also supports Azure
blob storage for import jobs. You can see in the table on my screen that the
if the job type is import the supported storage services is Azure blob storage
and Azure file storage.
Question number 11. Your company has a Microsoft SQL server always on
availability group configured on their Azure virtual machine. You need to configure an Azure internal load
balancer as a listener for the availability group. The solution you propose is you create an HTTP health
probe on port 1433. Does the solution meet the goal? You
need to choose between either yes or no. Whether the solution that you have chosen is right or wrong.
Now port 1433 is used by SQL server for SQL server database engine connections
and not HTTP connections. Therefore creating an HTTP health probe on port
443 will not work. To configure an Azure internal load
balancer as a listener for the availability group, you need to create a TCP health probe on port 443
which is the default port for SQL server.
This there can be another variation to this question. Let's say the solution was that you create a TCP health probe
on port 1443. then it was a correct solution. So as I
have been saying in my previous series as well, a minor variation to a question
can entirely change the solution. So pay attention to small details that are
mentioned in the questions before trying to answer it. Moving on to next question of the
series. You have an Azure subscription that contains an Azure storage account
and you plan to copy an onpremise virtual machine image to a container named VM images. Which command should
you run to create the container for the planned image. Now you have two sections
where you need to choose from different options that are presented on my screen.
The first option is a copy. You have three options in it. make, sync and
copy. Then the second one is the URL that is going to be formed. In the URL,
you need to choose between the options blob, DFS, Q, table, and images.
The correct answers are VM image is a collection of meta data
and pointers to a set of VHDs stored as page blobs in Azure storage.
So you create a blob storage and make is the command to create the container. So
the correct options are make and then blob.
Question number 13. A company has a requirement to deploy Windows VM in its
subscription. Which CLI command should the administrator run in order to create
the virtual machine? Your options are new-azvm
create-vm new-our rm
avm create. Whenever there is a mention of Azure CLI
for any purpose, you need to remember that Azure CLI commands start with something like a for example you use a
login to login into portal using CLI. So the correct answer in this case is
option D. Avm create. Key thing to note here is other three
commands in this question are in verb noun format which is followed by powershell and new-azvm
is also used for creating a virtual machine but using Azure PowerShell.
I would strongly suggest you to go through the links on my screen to understand CLI and PowerShell in more
details. Now you would have already guessed there can be a variation to this question as
well. If instead of mentioning which CLI command should the
administrator run in order to create the virtual machine, they could have also said which Azure PowerShell command the
administrator should run to create the virtual machine. In that case, the correct answer would be new avm.
Moving on to question number 14. Your company has an Azure Active Directory subscription. You need to deploy five
virtual machines to your company's virtual network subnet. The VMs will each have both a public and
private IP address. Inbound and outbound security rules for all of these virtual
machines must be identical. Which of the following is the least number of network interfaces needed for this
configuration? Your options are 5, 10,
20, and 40. The correct answer is option A. Five.
You'll need at least five network interfaces. In this case, you can assign
both a public and a private IP to an interface at the same time. And since we
are talking about five virtual machines, so we will need five network interfaces as a minimum in this case.
Now the question also mentions about the security rules here but that's just a distractor here and doesn't affect the
number of network interfaces needed. There will be some questions where you'll you'll see some statements which
are there just to distract you but they don't have any significance in that
question. So again be mindful when you are reading the questions.
Question number 15. Your company has a generalpurpose v1 Azure storage account
named storage one that uses locally redundant storage LRS. You are tasked
with implementing a solution that ensures the data in the storage account is protected if a zone fails. The
solution must minimize cost and administrative effort. What should you do first? Your options are
configure object replication rules, create a new storage account,
modify the replication settings of the storage account, upgrade the account to
general purpose v2. So here they are looking for an option
which provides redundancy against zonal failures which is basically geojone
redundant storage GZ RS and there is only one kind of storage
that provides this functionality which is generalpurpose V2. So the correct
answer is option D upgrade to generalpurpose V2.
We won't choose any option related to replication modifications here as the
question also talks about minimizing the cost and administrative effort.
You have an Azure subscription named subscription one that contains the resources shown in the following table.
The table has few resources named RG1, WAT 1, RG2 and along with its type uh
and the region where they were created and whether the which of the resource is
created in which resource group. You create virtual machines in subscription one as shown in the following table.
Again there are few virtual machines named VM1, VM2, VMA and VMBB. Uh along
with the resource groups in which they were created and uh then the corresponding regions and the operating
system of the host. You plan to use vault one for the backup of as many
virtual machines as possible. Which virtual machines can be backed up to
vault one? So you need to identify which all virtual machines can be backed up to
vault one. This is one of the questions where there is a lot of data in the question just to
confuse you and not everything is relevant. Main thing to note here is you need to
use vault to do the backup of virtual machines. Now based on the Microsoft
documentation the vault must be in the same region as the data source which is
the key to answer this question. Looking at both the tables you can see vault is
hosted in Australia central. So based on the previous uh information from
Microsoft documentation, you can only back up the virtual machines that are
hosted in Australia central. So the virtual machines that are hosted in
Australia central are VM1, VMA and VMBB.
So the right answer in this case is option C, VM1, VM A and VMBB only.
You can refer to the Microsoft official link on the screen to understand how to
set up recovery services vaults in more detail. Key takeaway here is if you have virtual
machines in several regions then you need to create recovery service vault in
all of those regions to back up the virtual machines.
Next question of the series. You have an Azure Active Directory tenant named
Ktoso cloud.onicrosoft.com. Your company has a public DNS zone for
Kontoso.com. You add ktoso.com as a custom domain name to Azure AD. You need to ensure
that Azure can verify the domain name. Which type of DNS record should you
create? Your options are MX, NSAC, RSIG,
PTR. When you add a custom domain name to Azure ID, you need to verify that you
own the domain by creating a DNS record in your domain's DNS zone which points
to Azure ID. In this case, you are going to add ktoso.com as a custom domain name
to azure ID, which means you need to create a DNS record in the DNS zone for
ktoso.com. So the type of DNS record that you
create is either a TXT or MX record. In this case, we just have MX in the list
of options. So the correct answer is option A, MX.
You are presented with similar settings shown on the screen which you need to use to configure DNS record with your
registar. Now there can be multiple variations to this question. As you would have already
seen uh this question has a mention of MX uh record but you can also create a
txt record. So the variation can be instead of MX you will have TXT in the
options. Question number 18 of the series. You
have an Azure subscription that contains an Azure Active Directory tenant named
kontoso.com and an Azure Kubernetes services cluster named AKS1.
An administrator reports that she is unable to grant access to AKS1 to the
users in Kontoso.com. You need to ensure that access to AKS1
can be granted to the Kontoso.com users. What should you do first? Your options
are from kontoso.com create an o 2.0 into authorization endpoint
from kontoso.com. Modify the organization relationship settings.
Recreate AKS1 or from AKS1 create a name space
to grant access to Azure Kubernetes service to users in your active directory tenant. You need to create a
OOTH 2.0 authorization endpoint in your tenant. The endpoint will allow users in
your tenant to authenticate and obtain a access token which can be used to access
the Kubernetes API server. Therefore, the first step in this scenario would be
to create the oorth 2.0 authorization endpoint in kontoso.com.
Option B, modifying the organization relationship settings is not related to
granting access to AKS1. So this is not the incorrect answer.
Option C, recreating AKS1 is not necessary as the issue is related to
user access and option D creating a name space is not related to again granting access to
AKS1 either.
Question number 19. Your organization system administrator has deployed two
standalone Azure virtual machines for a new web service. You now want to add
these virtual machines to fault domains in an availability set. When you attempt
to do this in the portal, you receive an error message preventing you from completing the task. What is the reason
for this? Your options are the availability set has to be paused or
stopped before standalone VMs can be added. VM's operating system is not
compatible with fault domains. You didn't check the required standalone
parameter in Azure portal. You cannot add running standalone VMs to
availability sets. Whenever adding virtual machines to an availability set, they need to be in a
stopped or deallocated state. You cannot add running virtual machines directly to
an availability set. Before attempting to add the virtual machine to the availability set, you should ensure that
they are stopped or deallocated. So the right answer is option D. You
cannot add running standalone VMs to availability sets.
Next question. Which Azure tool is a cloudbased command line service for
copying and migrating data between Azure storage accounts? Your options are
import export service, a copy, Azure datab box, Azure storage explorer.
So the correct answer is option B. A copy. Azopy is a powerful command line utility
that enables you to transfer files and data to and from Azure storage. It
supports various scenarios such as copying data within Azure between
different storage accounts and between Azure and your local machines.
It is designed to handle large scale data transfers efficiently and securely.
And it also provides features like parallelism, resume functionality and
support for different transfer modes which can be block page and append blobs
making it an ideal tool for data migration, backup and synchronization tasks in Azure storage.
So there can again be variations to this question. Um in this question they are
asking about copying and migrating data between Azure storage accounts. But as
you would have seen it can be used to transfer data within Azure. It can be
used to transfer data between Azure and your local machine as well.
Question number 21. You suspect hackers and bots have been
attacking your application's network. What Azure network monitoring or
analysis tool would best fit your needs? Your options are security group view,
network performance monitor, connection monitor, traffic analysis.
The correct answer is option D. Traffic analysis. It is a feature of Azure
network watcher which provides an indepth visibility into network traffic
patterns helping you identify anomalies and potential security threats. It
offers features such as network flow logs, traffic analytics and integration with Azure Sentinel for advanced
security monitoring and analysis. You can refer to the link on the screen
to read more about this. Question number 22. You have an Azure
subscription that contains the following users in an Azure AD tenant named contoso.onicrosoft.com.
Now the table has few users along with their roles and the scope of their
permissions. Some of the users have global administrator rights and uh the
others have user administrator or owner rights. User one creates a new Azure AD tenant
named external.contoso.onicrosoft.com. You need to create new user accounts in
the newly created tenant which is external.toso.onicrosoft.com.
The solution is you instruct user one to create the user accounts. You need to
now confirm whether this solution meets the goal or not. You need to choose between yes or no.
Yes, the solution meets the goal. User one has the necessary permissions which
is global administrator at AD level which gives it access to create user
accounts within the tenant. So instructing them to do so is a valid and appropriate solution.
Next question. Your company has a Microsoft Azure subscription. The
company has data centers in Los Angeles and New York. And you are configuring
the two data centers as geoclustered sites for site resiliency.
You need to recommend an Azure storage redundancy option which fulfills the
following data storage requirements. Requirements are data must be stored on
multiple nodes. Data must be stored on nodes in separate geographic locations.
Data can be read read from the secondary location as well as from the primary
location. Which of the following options should you recommend? Your options are
read only georredundant storage, zone redundant storage, locally redundant
storage, geo redundant storage. Now looking at
the options we can automatically rule out option A as there is nothing like
read only georredundant storage. Requirement two talks about storing data
in separate geographic location. So we can safely rule out option C which is
locally redundant which leaves us with option B and option D. And the correct
answer is option D geoundant storage.
Geor redundant storage copies your data synchronously three times within a
single physical location in the primary region using LRS.
It then copies your data asynchronously to a single physical location in a
secondary region that is hundreds of miles away from the primary region
and data can be read from secondary location as well as primary location. However, there are some configurations
that need to be made to enable read from both sides.
Question number 24. Your company has three virtual machines
that are included in an availability set. You try to resize one of the VMs
which returns an allocation failure message. Which of the following actions
should you take to resize the VM? Make a note of the keyword allocation failure
message. Your options are you should stop the VM,
you should stop the other two VMs, you should stop all three VMs, you should
remove the necessary VM from the availability set.
Now if as per the Microsoft documentation if the VM you wish to resize is part of an availability set
then you must stop all VMs in the availability set before changing the size of any VM in that. So the correct
answer is option C. You should stop all three VMs. Now there is a link on your
screen at the moment which is from Microsoft. You can go through this link to understand this in more detail.
Question number 25. You create an Azure storage account named Kontoso Storage.
You plan to create a file share named data. Users need to map a drive from
their home computers that run Windows 11 to the data file share. Which outbound
port should you open between the home computer and the data file share? Your
options are port 80, port 443, port 445, port 3389.
Now you must be familiar with port 80 and 443 as they are used for HTTP and
HTTPS protocol respectively. Port 3389 is used by default for RDP
which is remote desktop protocol which leaves us with one option that is option
C port 445 which is the correct answer. To map a drive from a home computer
running Windows 11 to an Azure fileshare, you need to open outbound
port 445 between the home computer and the data file share. Port 445 is the
standard port used for server message block file sharing which is SMB
protocol. Question number 26.
When using Azure resource manager templates, ARM templates, what feature
enables you to control resource properties during deployment in your
organization? Your options are Active Directory, Azure policy, API management,
resource tags. The correct answer is option B, Azure
policy. When deploying resources using ARM templates, Azure policy can evaluate
the deployment against the defined policies and enforce the desired
configurations. This helps ensure that resources deployed in your organization adhere to
the specified standards and guidelines.
Question number 27. You have an Azure subscription that
contains a resource group named RG1. You plan to use an ARM template named
template one to deploy resources and the solution must meet following
requirements. Deploy new resources to RG1.
Remove all the existing resources from RG1. Before deploying the new resources,
select the appropriate options to complete the command. Now the command is the standard command
to uh do a deployment on a resource group which is new- AZ resource group
deployment then your template URI and then the template parameter file. Now
after that you have different options which is -ame query string- resource
group name tag and then uh there is a mention of RG1. Now even if you don't
know the command by heart in the question you can see that the name of
the resource group is RG1. So the parameter that you need to select here
is the third one in the list which is resource group name. Okay. And then the next one is dash
mode. And there you have three modes mentioned basically either it's all or
it's complete or it's incremental. So the correct answer in this case is
complete. In complete mode, resource manager deletes resources that exist in
the resource group but aren't specified in the template. You should always use
the what if operation before deploying a template in complete mode. What if shows
you which resources will be created, deleted or modified.
This is sort of doing a dry run before you actually do anything. It is a good
practice to use what if because you know beforehand what is going to happen
and you will avoid unintentionally deleting resources.
Next question. Your company has an Azure subscription. You need to deploy a
number of Azure virtual machines using ARM templates. You have been informed
that the VMs will be included in a single availability set. You are
required to make sure that the ARM template you configure allows for as
many VMs as possible to remain accessible in the event of fabric
failure or maintenance. Which of the following is the value that
you should configure for the platform update domain count property? Now the
keywords in this question are you need to look for platform update domain count
first and then the event is a fabric failure or maintenance.
Your options are 10, 20, 30 or 40.
Let's first understand what is platform update domain count property in an
availability set because this is the keyword to answer this question.
It specifies the number of update domains available for distributing VMs.
An update domain is a logical group of VMs that can undergo maintenance or
updates simultaneously. By distributing VMs across multiple
update domains, you minimize the risk of downtime during updates or fabric
failures, which is what is being asked in this question. Azure typically supports a maximum of 20
update domains per availability set. So the correct answer is option B 20.
Moving on to next question. Which Azure storage service is designed
for large scale offline data migration intended to help businesses migrate
their data onto Azure cloud. Your options are store simple, easy copy,
Azure storage explorer, Azure datab box.
The correct answer is option D. Azure datab box. The Azure databox cloud
solution lets you send terabytes of data into and out of Azure in a quick,
inexpensive, and reliable way. The secure data transfer is accelerated by
shipping you a proprietary data box storage device. Each storage device has
a maximum usable storage capacity of 80TB and is transported to your data
center through a regional carrier. The device has a rugged casing to protect
and secure data during the transit. You can refer to the link on my screen
to read more about Azure data box.
Question number 30. You plan to deploy several Azure virtual machines that will
run Windows Server 2022 in a virtual machine scale set by
using ARM templates. You need to ensure that EngineX is available on all the
virtual machines after they are deployed. What should you use? Your options are a Microsoft Intune device
configuration profile, deployment center in Azure app service, a desired state
configuration DSC extension, the new A configuration
assignment commandlet. You should use a desired state
configuration extension to achieve this requirement.
Desired state configuration DSC is a feature in Azure that allows you to
define and enforce the desired state of a machine or application configuration.
There can be multiple variations to this question as you can achieve the same requirement by using Azure custom script
extension as well which is not part of the options at this point. So yeah,
there can be another variation to this question. You have an on-premise file server named
server 1 that runs Windows Server 2016. You have an Azure subscription that
contains an Azure file share. You deploy an Azure file sync storage sync service
and you create a sync group. You need to synchronize files from server one to
Azure. Which four actions should you perform in sequence? To answer, move the
appropriate actions from the list of actions to the answer area and arrange in correct order. On the left hand side,
you have some actions and right hand side has the answer area section where you need to drag all the correct answers
and uh you need to arrange them in the correct order. So basically if I sum up
then the requirement is you need to synchronize files from an onpremise server to Azure fileshare.
In order to perform this the steps you will perform are first of all you'll install the Azure
file sync agent on the onremise server. So in this case the server is server
one. Then you will register the server followed by creating a sync group and a
cloud endpoint. You'll finish the setup by adding a server endpoint.
Let's now look at these steps in more details. So as you know the first step is to
install the Azure file sync agent on server one. As it goes with every client server
model, you basically install a agent on the client server so that the server can
co coordinate with it. An Azure file sync agent is a downloadable package
that enables Windows server to be synced with an Azure fileshare. Now the next
step is you will have to register the server and here we are talking about registering the onremise server which is
a client in this case. So registering your Windows server with a storage sync
service establishes a trust relationship between your server and the storage sync
service. Now the next step is you'll create a sync group and a cloud endpoint.
A sync group defines the sync topology for a set of files. Endpoints within a
sync group are kept in sync with each other. A sync group must contain one cloud endpoint which represents an Azure
file share and one or more server endpoints which is going to be created in the next step and a server endpoint
represents a specific location on the registered server. Basically this is the location which is going to sync with the
Azure file sync server. Now there is a link on your screen at
the moment at the bottom uh which you can refer to read more about how this
setup is done and uh yeah you this will have more details around the setup than
just these four steps. Moving on to next question. You have an Azure subscription that
contains the storage accounts shown in the following table. The table has name of some of the storage accounts. what
are their types and what is the performance setup for them. You plan to
manage the data stored in the accounts by using life cycle management rules. To
which storage accounts can you apply life cycle management rules. Now you are
you need to choose which storage accounts can the life cycle management rules be applied to.
Your options are storage one only, storage 1 and two only, storage 3 and
four only, storage 1 2 and three only, storage 1 2 3 and four only. Basically
the last option has all the storage accounts listed. So the correct answer in this case is option D storage 1 2 and
three only. The life cycle management feature is available in all Azure regions for
general purpose version two accounts, blob storage accounts, premium block
globe storage accounts and Azure data lake storage gen 2 accounts. Now going
by this statement if you look at the type of the storage accounts that are mentioned here storage 1 2 and three are
the ones that contain the storage account storage account types which
support life cycle management policies hence making them the correct options in this case.
Question number 33. Your company has a Microsoft SQL server always on
availability group configured on their Azure virtual machines. You need to
configure an Azure internal load balancer as a listener for the availability group. Solution is you
enable floating IP. Does the solution meet the goal? You need to choose between yes or no.
Yes, the solution meets the goal. You can refer to the link to read around all
the load balancing rules of this setup and not just floating IP. So if you go
through this link, you will understand more about this setup and you will also
be better equipped to answer different variations of this question. So
I strongly suggest you to go through this link. Moving on to next question. You plan to
track resource usage and prevent the deletion of resources. To which
resources can you apply locks and tags? To answer, select appropriate options in
the answer area. In the answer area, for the locks, you have RG1 and VM1 only, then sub 1 and
RG1 only, then sub 1, RG1 and VM1 only, MG1, sub 1, RG1 and VM1. So basically uh
they have not specified here that uh uh what is RG1 or what is VM1 but uh these
are basically short forms of different things that exist in Azure. So let's say
RG1 stands for resource group, VM1 stands for virtual machine one, sub one
stands for subscription one and MG1 stands for management group. So if there
are full forms that are not defined in the questions, these are generic terms which
you should be across when dealing with Azure. Similarly for tags, these are the
same options that are available. So you need to choose which which one are the
right options basically to which resources you can apply logs and tags.
So the correct answers are on your screen now. Tags and locks can be applied to subscriptions, resource
groups and resources only. Hence making sub 1, RG1 and VM1 only as the correct
option. Moving on to question number 35. You
have an is a computer named computer one that has pointto-sightVPN
connection to an Azure virtual network named VNET 1. The pointto-sight
connection uses a self-signed certificate from Azure. You download and
install the VPN client configuration package on a computer named computer 2.
You need to ensure that you can establish a pointto-sightVPN connection to VNET one from computer 2. The
solution is you modify the Azure Active Directory authentication policies. Does
the solution meet the goal? You need to choose between yes or no. So before
going to answer this question, try to understand the question in a better way.
This is a very big question. So break it into small statements. See what is the
meaning of the first statement, what they are trying to convey in the second statement and then what they are asking
in the closing statement. So the first statement basically here is you have a
computer named computer one that has a pointto-sightVPN connection to Azure virtual network VNET 1. So computer one
already has a P2SV VPN connection to VNET 1 which uses self-signed
certificate for authentication. Now you need to set up the same connection from
another computer named computer 2. And what you do is
you modify the Azure Active Directory authentication policies. Now do you think this is the correct option?
No, this is not the correct solution. Pointto-sight connection uses
certificates to authenticate which you could have seen they they have already
mentioned that the pointto-sight connection uses a self-signed certificate. So what you'll have to do
you will need to export the client certificate from computer one and install the certificate on computer 2
which is what is the solution that is needed in this. So you can again refer
to the link on your screen to understand the uh point to site connection in more
detail. Question number 36. You have an Azure
subscription named subscription one that contains a virtual network named VNET 1.
VNET 1 is in a resource group named RG1. Subscription one has a user named user
one. User one has the following roles. Reader, security admin, security reader.
You need to ensure that user one can assign the reader role for VNET one to
other users. What should you do? Your options are assign user one the network
contributor role for VNET one. Assign user one the owner role for VNET one.
Remove user one from the security reader role for subscription one. Assign user
one the contributor role for RG1. Assign user one the contributor role for
VNET one. So this question has lots of data. Be
careful to spot the keywords that are being talked about here before answering
this question. They are talking about different roles. Network comput
contributor owner role security reader role and again a contributor role which
is a generic contributor role. So to answer this question you should be across around across with the built-in
roles in Azure. So let's look at the answer and then we will talk about what
is the purpose of each role which is being mentioned in this question.
So the correct answer is assign user one the owner role for VNET one. Let's now
look at the details of each of the roles being talked about here. The first one
is network contributor role which is being talked about in the first option. It lets you manage network but not
access to them which is why this was not the correct answer. The second option
talks about security reader roles which allows you to view permissions for
Microsoft Defender for cloud can make recommendations, alerts, security policy
and security states but cannot make changes. Now the third one was the correct answer
but here we are going to talk about the generic contributor role first and then we will go to the option which we choose
as a correct one. So the contributor role again grants full access to manage all resources but does not allow you to
assign roles in Azure Arbback which is what needs to be done in this question. So the right answer was owner role.
Basically owner role grants full access to manage all resources including the ability to assign roles in Azure Arbback
making it as the correct option in this case. You can refer to the link on your screen to read more about other built-in
roles that are available. There can be many variations to this question. So it is highly recommended that you are
across what are the different type of um built-in roles available in Azure.
Question number 37. You have an Azure Active Directory tenant named
Kontoso.com. You have a CSV file that contains the names and email addresses of 500
external users. You need to create a guest user account in kontoso.com.
For each of the 500 external users, make a note of the keyword here. They
are talking about external users. You should know that the process to create a
user which is in your tenant is different as compared to external user
which is the key to answer this question. So the solution you choose is
from Azure ID in the Azure portal you use the bulk create user operation. Does
this meet the goal? You need to choose between yes or no.
No, it doesn't meet the goal. To send bulk invitations to external user,
you'll follow these steps. Use bulk invite users to prepare a commaepparated
value which is CSV file with the user information and invitation preferences.
Upload the CSV file to Azure AD and then you will verify the users who were added to the directory.
Basically when you are adding the external users you use invite option and
not create option. Bulk create is for internal users which is why I was
telling you you focus on the keyword that you need to deal with external users here.
Moving on to question number 38. You plan to automate the deployment of a virtual machine scale set that uses the
Windows Server 2016 data center image. You need to ensure that when the scale
set virtual machines are provisioned, they have web server components installed. Which two actions should you
perform? Your options are create an automation account, upload a configuration script,
create an Azure policy, modify the extension profile section of the Azure
resource manager template, create a new virtual machine scale set in the Azure
portal. So the correct options in this case are
option B and D, upload a configuration script and modify the extension profile
section of the Azure resource manager template. Let's look at why others are not
correct. Let's start from bottom. Option E talks about creating virtual machine scale set
from Azure portal. But then the question says automation. So this is incorrect as
it will add manual effort. Try to eliminate the options. It is a
very good way to deal with questions in any of the certification exams. Try to
eliminate the wrong options and then it will be very easy for you to answer.
The next option which is option C is related to Azure policy which is again incorrect as policies are used for
governance. But here we need to install a web server component on virtual machine.
Now the first option which is automation account. Automation account will definitely be needed when trying to
achieve an automation. However, it doesn't relate to installation of a web server component on a virtual machine.
Hence making it an incorrect option. Let's move to question number 39. Now
you have an Azure virtual machine named VM1 that runs Windows Server 2019. You
need to create an alert in Azure when more than two error events are logged to
the system event log on VM1 within an hour. The solution you create an event
subscription on VM1. You create an alert in Azure monitor and specify VM1 as the
source. Does this meet the goal? You need to choose between yes and no.
So it doesn't meet the goal. You need to specify log analytics as the source for
for this alert and not the VM. The detailed steps are you create a Azure
log analytics workspace and configure the data settings. Then you will install the Microsoft monitoring agent on VM1
and then you you create an alert in Azure monitor and specify the log analytics workspace as the source. Again
there is a link on your screen. Refer to this link to understand this setup in more detail.
Question number 40. You have an Azure subscription named subscription one that
contains an Azure log analytics workspace named workspace one. You need
to view the error events from a table named event. Which query should you run
in workspace one? Your options are basically four
different type of queries and the correct answer is option C. You
can refer to the link again on your screen to understand more about search operator and its syntax. It is very
important that you go through the links which I mentioned in my videos to understand things in more detail as
there can be multiple variations to each question because Azure is very big and a
small change can make variations to the questions.
Your company has two onpremise servers named SRV01 and SRV02.
Developers have created an application that runs on SRV01. The application
calls a service on SRV02 by IP address. You plan to migrate the application on
Azure virtual machines. You have configured two virtual machines on a single subnet in an Azure virtual
network. You need to configure the two VMs with static internal IP address. What should you do?
Your options are modify the IP properties in Windows network and
sharing center. Run the set Azure static VNET IP PowerShell commandlet. Modify
the VM properties in the Azure management portal. Run the new Azure
RMVM config PowerShell commandlet. Run the set Azure subnet PowerShell
commandlet. There is a lot of data in the question. The key thing is to summarize it and not
get confused with distractors. If I sum up this question, then you basically
need to configure static internal IP addresses of Azure virtual machines. And
the correct way to do that is using set Azure static VNET IP commandlet which is
option B. In our case, the set Azure static VNET IP PowerShell commandlet is
used to set a static internal IP address of a Azure virtual machine. This
commandlet allows you to set the IP address, subnet mask, and default
gateway for the virtual machine's network interface. Let's now look at why other options are
not correct. So option A says modifying the IP addresses or IP pro IP properties
in Windows network and sharing center. It only applies to the local network
interface of the VM and does not set a static internal IP address for the VM on
the Azure virtual network. Option C is modifying VM properties in
the Azure management portal. It does not provide a way to set static IP addresses
for virtual machines. Option D, new Azure RMVM config is used to create a
new virtual machine configuration object. And option E, set Azure subnet
is used to modify the properties of an existing Azure subnet, not to set static
IP addresses for virtual machines. I hope this clarifies why other options
were not chosen as the correct answer. Let's go ahead with next question.
You have an Azure subscription named subscription one. You create an Azure
storage account named Kontoso Storage and then you create a file share named
data. which UNCC path shows you should you include in a script that references
files from the data file share. Now you you can get similar questions in the
exam and what you need to do in such questions is you need to drag the appropriate values to the correct
targets on the right hand side in the answer area and there can be variations
to this. However, in this case, you can use each value can be used once, more
than once or not at all. In the left hand side in the values section, you have blobtoso storage
file.co.windows.net data blob.core.windows.net.
On the right hand side in the answer area, you can see we have three blanks. So, basically, you need to uh drag uh
three values from the value section in the answer area. Now it can be that you
might have to drag a single value twice or uh these three values can be
different altogether. So the UNC path format is double/
storage account name dotfile.core.windows.net/fileshare
name. Remember this is the UNC format. Now in this question the storage account
name is Kontoso storage and fileshare name is data. So going by the previous
statement the answer is double/contoso storage.file.co.windows.net/data.
So basically you have used three values out of the five available ones and none
of them is repeated in this case. Moving on to question number 43.
Your company has an Azure Active Directory tenant that is configured for
hybrid existence with the onremise Active Directory domain. The on-premise
virtual environment consists of virtual machines running on Windows Server 2012R2 HyperV host servers. You have
created some PowerShell scripts to automate the configuration of newly created VMs.
You plan to create several new VMs and need a solution that ensures the script
are run on the new VMs. Which of the following is the best solution? Your
options are place the scripts in a new virtual machine hard disk. Configure a
group policy object to run the scripts as a startup scripts. Configure a setup
complete cmd batch file in the scripts directory.
Configure a group policy object to run the scripts as log on scripts.
Now the correct answer in this case is option C. Configure a setup complete cmd
batch file in the scripts directory under setup.
Now, Windows setup searches for the setup complete cmd in this directory
when the startup happens. Let's look at this is this explanation in more detail.
Now, setup complete cmd and error handler cmd
are custom scripts that run during or after the Windows setup process. They
can be used to install applications or run other tasks by using ccript/wcript
scripts. The setup dot setup complete cmd runs
with local system permissions and starts immediately after the user sees the desktop. This setting is disabled when
using OEM product keys except on enterprise editions and Windows server
operating systems. Error handler cmd which is not in the scope scope of this question runs
automatically when setup encounters a fatal error. It runs with local system
permissions. Now there is a link on the screen. You can refer to this link to understand
more about these things in detail. Moving on to question number 44. You
have an Azure directory tenant named DevOps Hub and an
Azure subscription named subscription one. DevOps hub contains a group named
developers. Subscription one contains a resource group named dev. You need to
provide the developers group with the ability to create Azure logic apps in
the dev resource group. The solution you choose is on subscription one. You
assign the logic app operator role to the developers group. Does this meet the goal? You need to choose between yes or
no. Now let's understand what logic app operator role is. This role lets you
read, enable and disable logic apps but not edit or update them. The requirement
in this case is to create them. Hence, this is an incorrect solution.
You would need the logic app contributor role which lets you manage logic apps.
So there can be a variation to this question. If the solution was talking about the logic app contributor role,
then you would have chosen yes as the answer.
Next question. Your company has an Azure Active Directory tenant that is configured for
hybrid co coexistence with the onremise active directory domain. You plan to
deploy several new virtual machines in Azure. The VMs will have the same
operating system and custom software requirements. You configure a reference VM in the on-premise virtual
environment. You then generalize the VM to create an image. So basically you have created a VM
image. You need to upload the image to Azure to ensure that it is available for
selection when you create the new Azure VMs. Which PowerShell command led should you use? Your options are add a image
data disk, add a image, add a VHD
and the last option is add avm. The correct answer in this case is
option C. Add avhd. This commandlet uploads onpremised
virtual hard disks inv file format to a blob storage account as
fixed virtual hard disks. You can refer to the link to understand
more about this command and how the images are uploaded.
Question number 46. You have an Azure policy as shown in the
following exhibit. What is the effect of the policy?
Your options are you can create Azure SQL servers in Kontoso RG1 only. You are
prevented from creating Azure SQL servers in Kontoso RG1 only. You can
create Azure SQL servers in any sub resource group within subscription.
You are prevented from creating Azure SQL servers anywhere in subscription
one. Let's try to read the policy from top to
bottom. Firstly, scope defines which level is the policy
applied at and in this case it is applied at subscription level.
Next is the exclusion section and you can see
Pontoso RG1 is exempted. So everything under
subscription one will need to adhere to this policy except Kontoso RG1 resource
group. Now next is the policy definition.
It is the section which I have highlighted. Now here certain resource types are not allowed to be created. And
finally the parameter section
says the resource group which is not allowed is
the resource which is not allowed is Microsoft SQL server. So if I sum up whatever I just said then
it means you can't create resource type SQL servers in subscription one except
Pontoso RG1. And if you rephrase this statement then it means you can create SQL servers in
Kontoso RG1 only which is the right answer option A in our case.
I hope this clarifies to you how we read the policy from top to bottom.
I already have created a detailed video around Azure policies. If you are
interested in learning more about how the Azure policy works and what is the hierarchy, you can go through the video.
I'll put the link to the video in the description section of this one. Let's
move to the next question. You have an Azure AD tenant named
devopshhub.com that contains the groups shown in the table on the left. devopshhub.com
contains the users shown in the table on the right. Now on the left table we have
three groups. Group one, group two and group three. And then we are shown with the
membership of these groups. So group one is not nested to any group but group two
is member of group one and group three is member of group two. So we are talking about nested relationships here.
On the right hand side the table has again uh in the in the names now you
have users and the membership is which user is added to which group. So user one is part of group one, user two is
part of group two, user three is part of group three and user four is not part of
any of the groups. Now the condition is you assign the Azure Active Directory premium plan to license to group one and
user 4. Which users are assigned the Azure Active Directory premium plan to
license? Now we are talking about Azure ADP2 license here and uh the license is
directly applied to group one and user four only and we need to tell to which
all users will it get applied ultimately. Your options are user 1 2
and four only user four only. User 1 and four only user 1 2 3 and four which is
like all users. Now whenever dealing with Azure Active Directory license assignment to a nested
group, you need to remember that assignment to nested groups is not supported. If you assign a license to
nested group, then it will only be applied to first level members of the
group. Again I repeat, it will only be applied to the first level members of the group.
In this case it is assigned to user four and group one. So user four will get it
assigned and then if you look at both the tables then you will notice user one
is the first level member which means it will get the Azure ADP2 license and
group two or three are nested which contain other users so they won't get the license assigned.
Therefore the correct answer in this case is option C user one and user four
only. I hope it is clear to you. If you have any doubts then you can uh post
them in the comment section and I'll be more than happy to answer them for you.
Now on my screen there is a link uh which you can refer to to understand the
limitations and known issues which you'll face when you are dealing with uh
nested groups and Azure AD uh P2 license.
Let's move to next question. Your company has an Azure subscription
that includes a storage account, a resource group, a blob container, and a file share.
A colleague named Jim Taylor makes use of a solid solitary Azure resource
manager ARM template to deploy a virtual machine and an additional Azure storage
account. You want to review the um template that was used by Jim Taylor.
Solution is you access the resource group blade. Does the solution meet the goal? You need to choose between yes or
no. Yes, this is the correct solution. To view a template from deployment history,
you just need to go to the resource group and should be able to see the
result of last deployment. Upon clicking on this, it will show you the summary of
the deployment which will include the template used for deployment and the parameters passed.
Question number 49. You have an Azure subscription named subscription one and an onpremise
deployment of Microsoft System Center service manager. Subscription one
contains a virtual machine named VM1. You need to ensure that an alert is set
in service manager when the amount of available memory memory on VM1 is below
10%. What should you do first? Your options are deploy a function app,
create an automation runbook, create a notification,
deploy the IT service management connector ITSM.
The correct answer in this case is option D. Deploy the IT service management
connector ITSM. It allows you to connect Azure and a supported IT service
management product or service such as Microsoft System Center Service Manager.
Next question. You have three offices and an Azure subscription that contains
an Azure Active Directory tenant. You need to grant user management
permissions to a local administrator in each office. What should you use? Your
options are access packages in Azure AD entitlement management, Azure ROS,
administrative units, Azure AD roles.
The correct answer is option C. Administrative units. Administrative units restrict
permissions in a role to any portion of your organization that you define.
You could for example use administrative units to delegate the help desk administrator role to regional support
specialists so they can manage users only in the region that they support.
You can refer to this link to understand more about administrative units in Azure.
You have an Azure subscription named subscription one. Subscription one contains the resource groups in the
following table. Now in the table you have three resource groups named RG1, RG2 and RG3 and they are hosted in Azure
regions including West Europe, North Europe, France Central and there are
three policies named policy 1, policy 2 and policy 3 applied to the respective resource groups. Resource group one
which is RG1 has a web app named web app 1. Web app 1 is located in West Europe.
you move web app 1 to RG2. What is the effect of the move? So basically a
resource group uh contains web app 1 and this web app 1 is moved from RG1 to RG2.
You need to determine what is the effect of the move on web app 1. Your options
are the app service plan for web app 1 moves to North Europe. policy applies.
Policy one applies to web app 1. Option two, the app service plan for web
app 1 remains in West Europe. Policy 2 applies to web app 1.
Option three, the app service plan for web app 1 moves to North Europe. Policy
2 applies to web app 1. Option four, the app service plan for web app 1 remains
in West Europe. policy one applies to web app one. Now all these options are
combination of either the location the region of the web app one is changing or
a different policy is getting applied. Whenever you are dealing with such situations you need to know that moving
a resource only moves it to a new resource group or subscription. It doesn't change the location of the
resource. So the app service plan will remain same in West Europe.
Based on this statement, you can eliminate option A and option C. Let's
now look at which policy will be applied as that's the second part of the solution. Policy in this case is scoped
to resource group. As you can see RG1 has policy 1, RG2 has policy 2 and RG3
has policy 3. So as soon as you move to a new resource group, the policy
corresponding to target resource group will get applied. Which means after the move app service will have policy 2
applied. So the correct answer is option B. The app service plan for web app 1
remains in West Europe. Policy 2 applies to web app 1.
Let's look at next question of the series. You deploy an Azure Kubernetes service
cluster named cluster 1 that uses the IP addresses shown in the following table.
Now there are four IP addresses and then the assign to table shows to which section or feature the IP address is
applied to. You need to provide internet users with access to the applications
that run in cluster one. Which IP address should you include in the DNS
record for cluster one? Your options are 192.16810.2
172.17.1 1317.2.1
10.010.11. Now here you are trying to expose the
application over internet which means you will need a public IP. Looking at
the table you can easily identify 131.107.2.1 2.1 is a public IP. This this you can
identify based if you have just the basic knowledge of IP addresses. Now in
case you are not a networking person then also the question has hint in the
assigned to section where it says in the first IP which is the right answer. It
says load balancer front end. front end is usually associated with the endpoint
that is used by users to access the application.
So even if you don't have the networking knowledge, it doesn't need very advanced
networking knowledge uh if if but if you don't have the basic uh networking knowledge as well uh then also you can
answer this question just looking at the assigned to section.
Let's move to question number 53 of the series. You have an Azure virtual machine named VM1 that runs Windows
Server 2019. The VM was deployed using default drive settings. Remember a note
a keyword here default drive settings. You sign into VM1 as a user named user
one and perform the following actions. The action that you perform are create files on drive C, create files on drive
D, modify the screen saver time out, change the desktop background, you plan
to redeploy the VM. Now you want to redeploy the VM. What changes will be lost after you redeploy the VM. So you
make some changes to the VM and now you want to redeploy it and you need to determine which changes will be lost
after you redeploy VM. Your options are the new files on drive
D, the new desktop background, the modified screen saver timeout, the new
files on drive D. After you redeploy a DM, a VM, all the data that you saved on
the temporary disk or the ephemereral disk is lost. Since the VM is deployed
with default settings that means D drive is the temporary disk here. So files
created in D drive will be lost when the VM is redeployed. So the correct answer
is option D. New files on drived D. Now as a note I would like to tell you that
the dynamic IP addresses associated with virtual network interface are also updated when a VM is redeployed. So
there can be another part in this question talking about the IP addresses
associated with virtual network as well. Let's move to question 54 of
the series. You have an Azure storage account named storage one that uses Azure blob storage
and Azure file storage. You need to use a copy to copy data to the blob storage
and file storage in storage one. Which authentication method should you use for
each type of storage? To answer, you just need to select the appropriate options in the answer area. Now for blob
storage and file storage you have similar options and the options are Azure active directory only shared
access signatures only access keys and shared access signature only Azure AD
and shared access signature only Azure ID access keys and shared access
signatures which means all three options. So the correct answers are for blob
storage you can use Azure AD and SAS only and for file storage you can only
use SAS. Now let's look at the detailed explanation.
As you can see here is a screenshot from Microsoft to support the answer where
you can clearly see when authorizing a copy then you can use Azure AD and SAS
with blob storage and SAS only authentication is supported for file storage. You can refer to the link on
your my screen now which uh will provide you more details around how you
authorize a copy and what all authentication methods are available and
how they can be configured. Next question.
You have an Azure subscription linked to an Azure Active Directory tenant. The
tenant includes a user account named user one. You need to ensure that user
one can assign a policy to the tenant root management group. What should you
do? Your options are assign the global administrator role to user one and then
instruct user one to configure access management for Azure resources.
Create a new management group and delegate user one as the owner of the new management group.
Assign the owner role for the Azure subscription to user one and then
instruct user one to configure access management for HR resources. Assign the
owner role for the Azure subscription to user one and then modify the default
conditional access policies. So the correct answer in this case is
assign the global administrator role to user one and then instruct user one to
configure access management for Azure resources.
Question number 56. You have an Azure subscription that contains a web app named web app 1. You need to add a
custom domain named ww.ontoso.com to web app 1. What should you do first?
Create a DNS record. Upload a certificate. Add a connection
string. Stop web app 1. The correct answer is option A. Create a
DNS record. You can either use a CNAME record or an A record to map a custom
DNS name to app service. It is recommended to use CNAME for custom domain and A record for root domains.
Question number 57. You deploy an Azure Kubernetes service
cluster named AKS1. You need to deploy a YAML file to AKS1.
Solution you choose is from Azure CLI you run the cubectl client.
Does this meet the goal? You need to choose between yes or no.
Yes, this is the correct solution. To deploy the YL file, you need to run the below command which is on your screen.
cubectl apply -f is the parameter and then whatever is your file namey.
Again, there is a link on your screen. Go through this link to understand more about Azure Kubernetes cluster and their
deployments. Let's move to question number 58 of the series.
You have an Azure subscription that contains a virtual machine named VM1.
VM1 hosts a line of business application that is available 24 hours a day. VM1
has one network interface and one managed disk. VM1 uses the DSV3 size.
You plan to make the following changes to VM1. Change the size to DPS5.
Add a 500GB managed disk. Add the puppet agent extension.
Enable desired state configuration management. Which change will cause
downtime for VM1. Now you have a critical line of business application which is used 24 + 7 and you are making
some changes to the application which are mentioned uh and you need to determine which of the change will cause
downtime. Your options are add the puppet agent extension, add a 500GB managed disk,
change the size of DPS5,
enable desired state configuration management. Now, changing the size of an Azure
virtual machine involves a stop and restart of the virtual machine, which will cause downtime for the critical
application hosted on VM1. So the correct answer is option C.
Change the size to DPS V5. Now adding a managed disk, installing the puppet
agent extension or enabling desired state configuration management will not cause any downtime for VM1. So they are
not the correct options. Next question.
You have an Azure subscription that contains a Azure Kubernetes service cluster named AKS1.
The autoscaling feature is enabled. You need to configure the minimum and
maximum node counts for AKS1. Which commandlet should you use? Your options
are set AKS cluster, start a AKS cluster, update AKS node pool, set AKS
cluster credential. Now the set aks cluster can be used to
set minimum and maximum node counts for the cluster. Node max count parameter is
used for setting maximum number of nodes for autoscaling and node min count is
used for setting minimum number of nodes for autoscaling. I have links to both of
these parameters so that you can read through them in more detail and understand them on how they can be used
in practical scenarios. Now talking about the questions which
talking about the answers which are incorrect. The start aks cluster is used
to start an Azure Kubernetes cluster. Update aks node poolool is used to
update node poolool in a managed cluster and set aks cluster credential is used
to reset the service principle of an existing AKS cluster.
So if this question is rewarded and a different functionality is asked, you
know three options which will help you in answering a different type of
question. Let's move to next question of the series. You have an Azure subscription that contains an Azure
container app named container app 1. You plan to add scaling rules to container
app 1. You need to ensure that container app one replicas are created based on
received messages in the Azure service bus. Which scale trigger should you use?
Your options are HTTP driven, eventdriven, memory usage and CPU usage.
So the correct answer is option B. Event driven. Scaling is driven by three
different categories of triggers. It can be a HTTP which is based on the number of concurrent HTTP requests to your
revision. It can be a TCP trigger based on the number of concurrent TCP
connections to your revision. And it can be a custom trigger which can be created based on CPU, memory or supported
eventdriven data source which is what is asked in this question. And the driven sources can be Azure service bus, Azure
event hubs, Apache Kafka and Radius. In this question they are talking about
Azure service bus. But you can see there are different data sources which are supported which can be Azure event hubs
or CFKA or radius. So again this question can be rewarded to a different
question or uh probably uh a different source can be used. So it is very
important that you remember there are other sources as well that are supported apart from Azure service bus.
You have an Azure subscription that contains two log analytics workspaces named workspace one and workspace 2 and
100 virtual machines that run Windows Server. You need to collect performance data and events from the virtual
machines. The solution must meet the following requirements. Logs must be
sent to workspace one and workspace 2. All Windows events must be captured. All
security events must be captured. What should you install and configure on each
virtual machine? Your options are Windows Azure Diagnostic Extension,
Azure Monitor Agent, Windows VM Agent to collect performance data and events from
the virtual machines and meet the specified requirements. You should install and configure the Azure monitor
agent on each virtual machine. The Azure monitor agent is responsible for
collecting and sending performance data, logs and events from the virtual machine to Azure monitor. It supports collecting
both Windows events and security events which is a requirement in this question.
You can define a data collection rule to send data from multiple machines to multiple log analytics workspaces.
Again, this is a requirement that you need to send logs from both workspaces. And this includes workspaces in
different regions or tenants as well. On your screen, you can see a URL uh which
you can use to understand more about how to create a data collection rule.
Now let's look at why other options are not right. The other option which is
Windows Azure diagnostic extension is primarily used for collecting diagnostic
data from Azure virtual machines and cloud services and it is not responsible
applicable in this scenario since you are using virtual machines running on Windows server. The Windows VM agent is
responsible for managing and configuring virtual machines in Azure but does not provide the necessary functionality for
collecting and sending performance data and events to Azure monitor making it an incorrect choice.
Let's look at next question of the series. You have an Azure subscription that uses
the public IP addresses shown in the following table. Now the table has three
IPs. All are IP version 6 and their SQ uh is for first two it is basic and the
last one is standard. The IP address assignment for IP 1 and IP3 is static
and the IP2 is dynamic. When it comes to availability zone, IP 1 and IP2 don't
have any availability zone applicable and for IP3 it is zone redundant. Now
you need to create a public Azure standard load balancer. which public IP
address can you use? Now the matching SKUs are required for
load balancers and public IP resources as per the official Microsoft documentation.
Now here you can see load balancer is a standard one and in the table you can see only IP3
is the one which has standard SKU. So the correct answer is option B IP3 only.
Question number 63 of the series. Your company has a series of virtual machines
created as part of their Azure subscription. They want to ensure the IT
administrative team is notified if any of the virtual machines go into the deallocated state. Which of the
following could you perform to fulfill this requirement? Your options are enable diagnostic logs
for the virtual machine, create an alert based on the activity log for the virtual machine, assign a resource tag
for the virtual machine, and then create an alert based on that resource tag,
create an Azure policy using an inbuilt definition from the compute category.
Now by creating an alert based on the activity log, you can configure a condition to trigger an alert whenever a
virtual machine goes into the deallocated space.
The activity log records all the management events and operations performed on Azure resources including
the state change of virtual machines which is what we are trying to capture here. the deallocated state of the
virtual machine as like previous questions. Now let's look at why other options are not
correct. Enabling diagnostic logs for the virtual machine would provide detailed monitoring and troubleshooting
information but does not specifically address the requirement of notifying the IT administrative team about the
deallocated state. Now option C assigning a resource tag
for the virtual machine and creating an alert based on that resource tag can help with organizing and managing
resources but it doesn't directly capture the state change of the virtual machine.
Option D, which is creating an Azure policy using an inbuilt definition from the computer category, helps enforce
specific rules and configurations just like all other Azure policies, but may
not provide the realtime notifications for the deallocated state, making it an
incorrect choice. Next question. Your company has an Azure
subscription that includes a storage account. A resource group, a blob container, and a file share. A colleague
named Jim Taylor makes use of a solitary Azure resource manager template to
deploy a virtual machine and an additional Azure storage account. You want to review the ARM template that was
used by Jim Taylor. Solution is you access the virtual machine blade. Does
the solution meet the goal? You need to tell yes or no and no. This solution
doesn't meet the goal. Accessing the virtual machine blade would not allow you to review the ARM template that was
used by the user Jim Taylor. To review the ARM template used by Jim, you would
typically need to access the deployment history or template deployment section within the Azure portal. From there you
can view the deployment history and find the specific deployment made by the user. Within the deployment details you
can access the ARM template that was used for deployment and you can review its contents as well.
Question number 65. Your company has an Azure Active Directory tenant named DevOpsub2023.com.
Company has appointed user one to review all the settings of the tenant. As an
admin, your job is to ensure that user one can review all the settings of the tenant. However, user one must be
prevented from changing any settings. Which role should you assign to user one? Your options are security reader,
directory reader, global reader and reports reader. And the correct answer
in this case is option C, global reader. When you grant global reader role to the
user, they can read everything that a global administrator can but not update anything making it a correct choice in
this case. Next question. You have an Azure Active
Directory tenant named kontoso.onicrosoft.com that contains 100 user accounts. You
purchase 20 Azure AD premium P2 licenses for the tenant. You need to ensure that
20 users can use all the Azure AD premium features. What should you do?
Your options are from the license blade of Azure AD, assign a license from the
directory role blade of each user. Modify the directory role from the Azure
AD domain. Add an enterprise application from the groups blade of each user.
Invite the users to a group. And the correct answer in this case is
from the license plate of Azure AD assign a license. Now by assigning the Azure AD premium P2 licenses to specific
users from the license plate of Azure AD you can grant them access to all the
features and capabilities offered by Azure AD premium. This action allows you
to assign the licenses directly to the 20 users who need the premium feature.
Question number 67. You have a sync group named sync one that has a cloud
endpoint. The cloud endpoint includes a file named file1.txt.
Your onremise network contains servers that run Windows Server 2019. The
servers are configured as shown in the following table. Now you have two servers who have shares with the name of
share 1 and share 2. And share one contains file 1.txt and file 2.txt and
share 2 contains file 2.txt and file 3.txt. You add share one as a endpoint
for sync one. 1 hour later you add share 2 as an endpoint for sync one. For each
of the following statement select yes if the statement is true. Otherwise, select now no. Now you will get a bunch of
statements which you need to tell whether they are right or wrong based on the scenario explained in the question.
Now the first statement is on the cloud endpoint file 1.txt is overritten by
file 1.txt from share 1. Now you can see
the cloud endpoint already has a file named file 1.txt and share one which is
mapped also has a file named file 1.txt. So the question or a statement is on the
cloud endpoint file 1.txt is overritten by file 1.txt from share one.
No when you add share one as the endpoint for sync one it does not
automatically override any files on the cloud endpoint. The initial synchronization process will compare the
files in share one and the cloud endpoint and ensure that they are in sync. So they don't get overridden by
default. Now the next statement is on server one file 1.xt is overridden by
file 1.txt from cloud endpoint. Again, no. When you add share one and
share two as sync as as endpoints for sync one, it does not automatically override any files on the on-premise
servers like server one. The initial synchronization process will compare the files in the cloud endpoint and
on-premise servers and ensure they are in sync. The statement the the answer to
this statement is exactly same as that of the previous statement. There a
different scenario of overwritten was talked about. Here we are talking about a different scenario of overr over overr
over overriding files but the explanation is same. The files will not get override in the initial
synchronization process. Let's look at third statement. File one.txt from share
1 replicates to share 2. Yes, when you add share one and share
two as endpoints for sync one, the files in share one will be replicated to share two. Since file one is included in share
one, it will be replicated to share 2 as part of the synchronization process. Sync one ensures that the file in the
different endpoints of the sync group are kept in sync. So the statement would
be applicable for other files as well. If they are missing from one share, they
will get replicated to the other share.
Question number 68 of the series. Development team for your project asks you to provision an Azure storage
account for their use. To remain in compliance with IT security policy, you need to ensure that the new Azure
storage account meets the following requirements. Now the requirements are
data must be encrypted at rest. Access keys must facilitate automatic rotation.
The company must arrange the manage the access keys. What should you do? Your
options are create a service endpoint between the storage account and a virtual network. Require secure transfer
for the storage account. Enable storage service encryption SSC on the storage
account. Configure the storage account to store its keys in Azure key vault.
And the correct answer in this case is option D. Configure the storage account to store its keys in Azure key wault.
Let's look at why other options are not correct. You should not create a service endpoint
between the storage account and a VNET. A service endpoint allows you to limit traffic to a storage account from
resources residing on the Azure VNET. Now secure transfer which is option B.
You should not require secure transfer for the storage account. Secure transfer forces all rest API calls to use HTTPS
instead of HTTP. This feature has nothing to do with either access keys or their management and rotation. And the
third option you should not enable SSE on the storage account for two reasons. First SSE is enabled automatically on
all Azure storage accounts and encrypts all storage account data at rest. Second
SSE in its native form uses Microsoft managed access key which violates the
scenario constraint for customer managed keys. The third requirement is there
should be the company must manage the access keys which is what we are talking
about customer managed access key. So the correct answer in this case is
option D. Configure the storage account to store its keys in Azure key vault.
Let's look at next question. You have an Azure subscription that contains the following resources.
120 Azure virtual machines, 20 Azure SQL databases, 50 Azure file shares. You
need to create a daily backup of all the resources by using Azure backup. What is
the minimum number of backup policies that you must create? Now your options are 1, 2, 3, 150 or
170. The minimum number of backup policies you must create in this case is two.
Now let's look at why two. As you can see on my screen with Azure backup, you
can create a single backup policy that can be applied to multiple resources of
the same type. However, a single backup policy can have a maximum of 100 virtual machines. So in this case, since you
have 120 Azure virtual machines, which means you will need at least two backup policies to accommodate this
requirement. If the question had maybe 90 virtual machines then one backup policy would have been enough in that
case. So it is very critical that whenever there is some data mentioned in
the question uh make sure that you are looking at the numbers as well because
they might give you the numbers which are just at the border which is what is
seen in this case.
Let's look at next question. You have an Azure subscription that has
a recovery services vault named vault 1. The subscription contains the virtual
machines shown in the following table. VM1, VM2, VM3 and VM4 are the four VMs.
And the operating systems are Windows 10, Ubuntu Server, Windows Server 2012R2
and Windows Server 2016. Now the machines also have a auto
shutdown schedule. Two machines which are VM1 and VM4 are getting shut down at
8:00 p.m. whereas the other machines don't have a auto shutdown schedule. You
plan to schedule backups to occur every night at 11:00. Which virtual machines can you
back up by using Azure backup? Now the options are the first one is VM1
only. Second one is VM1 and VM2. Third one is VM1 and VM3 and the fourth one is
VM1, VM2, VM3 and VM4. Now in this case you should be able to
back up all the VMs using Azure backup. Let's look at detailed explanation for
saying why all VMs can be backed up in this case. So in the table you can see two of the
VMs are getting auto shutdown at 8 and the first statement which I have there
in the explanation says Azure backup supports backup of VMs that are shut down or offline. So even though you have
a shutdown schedule here it doesn't really matter it is just there so to
confuse you but even if a VM is shut down its backup can be taken. Now the second statement is
Azure backup supports backup of 64-bit Windows Server operating systems from Windows Server 2008 and the two VMs
which are VM3 and VM4 are obviously over
released after Windows Server 2008. So uh which pretty much confirms VM3 and
VM4 can be backed up. Now uh again the Azure back uh backup supports Windows 10
operating system as well which means VM1 can also be backed up and HR backup
supports Ubuntu operating systems as well which are above 12.04
and here the Ubuntu server we have is 18.04 LTS. So that can also be backed up
making the option which has all the VMs listed as the correct answer.
And there is a link on your screen at the moment which you can refer to uh read more about uh the different metrics
that are applicable when you are doing backups using Azure backup. You
administer a solution in Azure that is currently having performance issues. You need to find the cause of the
performance issues pertaining to metrics on the AGR infrastructure. Which of the
following is the tool you should use to analyze the performance issues? So your infrastructure is having issues. The
infrastructure is hosted on Azure and you need to find which tool you can use to analyze these performance issues.
Your options are Azure monitor, Azure activity log, Azure traffic analytics,
Azure advisor. Azure monitor is the tool you should use to diagnose performance issues related
to metrics on the Azure infrastructure. It helps you gain insights into the
performance and availability of your application and resources by collecting data from various sources including
metrics, logs and activity data. Let's now look at why others are not right.
Azure activity log provides information around operations performed on resources
in your subscription. Azure traffic analytics is more focused
on analyzing network traffic patterns and Azure advisor as the name suggests
provides best practice recommendations for improving the performance, security
and reliability of your Azure resources. Next question. You have an Azure
subscription named subscription one that contains a resource group named RG1. In
RG1, you create an internal load balancer named LB1 and a public load
balancer named LB2. You need to ensure that an administrator named admin 1 can
manage both the load balancers LB1 and LB2. The solution must follow the
principle of least privilege. Which role should you assign to admin one for each
task? Now the tasks are you need to add a backend pool to LV1 and the second
task is you need to add a health probe to LV2. So in both the tasks you are
performing either a different operation on both the load balancers. Now the
options that have been given to you are contributor on LB1,
network contributor on LB1, network contributor on RG1 and owner of LB1.
Similarly, you have corresponding issues for LB2 where LB1 has been replaced by LB2 and you just have one resource
group. So the option related to resource group remains same. So before we go to uh look at these
options in detail, you need to understand that in Azure you can specify a scope at four levels which are
management groups, subscriptions, resource groups and resources. This
pretty much follows the hierarchy in Azure. I already have a detailed video around how to differentiate between
different things and what is the hierarchy in Azure. So if you don't know these terms yet then go through the
video to understand the hierarchy in more detail. Now the now the question here specifically talks about principle
of least privilege. So we can rule out anything at resource group level as this will be too broad permission.
So we will strike out option three in both of the cases. Now the remaining
options are focused on individual resources. So let's look at which role is least privileges and allows you to do
the necessary task. The standard owner and contributor role
are not specific to any resource type. However, the question specifically talks about load balancer. So both of them are
again an incorrect choice. Now the remaining option which leaves us this
leaves us with just one option which is network contributor on LB1 and LB2 is
the correct choice here. The network contributor role lets you manage networks but not access them.
Question number 73 of the series. You have an Azure DNS zone named
devopshub.com. You need to delegate a subdomain named cicd.devopshub.com devopsub.com
to a different DNS server in Azure. What should you do? Your options are create a
PTR record named CICD in DevOpshub.com zone. Create a NS record named CICD in
the DevOpshub.com zone. Create a A record named star.copshub.com
zone. Modify the SOA record of devopsub.com.
To delegate a subdomain named cicd.devopshub.com to a different DNS server in Azure, you
should create a NS record named CICD in the devopshub.com zone.
The NS record or name server record specifies the authorative DNS server
responsible for resolving the subdomain cicd. devopsub.com.
By creating this NS record, you are delegating the resolution of the subdomain to a different DNS server.
Next question. You have an Azure subscription named sub
one that contains the Azure resources shown in the table. Now, the table has three Azure resources with the name RG1,
storage one, and VNET one. And on the right side, you have the type of the resources. As the name indicates, RG1 is
a resource group. Storage one is a storage account. VNET one is the virtual network. You assign an Azure policy that
has the following settings. Now you are assigning an Azure policy on the set of
resources and the settings are the scope of the policy is sub one which is
subscription one and there is exclusion as well. So the exclusion is applied on
a resource level and you can see vnet one is excluded from the policy. Policy
definition is append the tag and its value to resources. Policy enforcement
is enabled which tells the policy is enabled. Now as you can see in the policy
description it's basically appending a tag and its value to resources. So the tag name is tag four and the tag value
is value four. You assign tags to the resources as
shown in the table. You have different resources and tags in the table. Sub one has a tag tag one
colon subscription. RG1 has a tag called tag 2 col it. Storage one has a tag
called tag 3 col volume A. VNET 1 has a tag called
tag three colon value 2. Now for each of the following statements you need to
select yes if the statement is true otherwise select no. Your first statement is RG1 has the tag 2 col it
tag assigned only. Now based on the policy definition to
append a tag and its value to resources this statement will be true as here we
are talking about tags on a resource group. So there will be no change to the tags
assigned to RG1. The second statement is storage one has the tags tag one sub its
value is subscription. Tag two its value is it. Tag three's value is value one and tag four value is value four tags
assigned. Storage one is a resource which was
created before policy was applied and the policy doesn't have any remediation
plan associated. So the tag should remain same. Hence the statement is incorrect because initially storage one
has just one tag which is tag three and its value is value one.
The third statement, VNET one has tag two with value ID and tag three with
value two tags assigned. Resources don't inherit the tags you
apply to a resource group or a subscription. So this statement is again incorrect. As originally you can see
VNET one had just one tag which was tag three with a value value two. But here
in the statement they have a different tag coming and that was not a tag which
was defined in the policy rather it was a tag which was at a resource group level and as my last statement the tags
are not inherited. So vet one will still have just one tag which is tag three
with a value value two. Next question.
You have a hybrid deployment of Azure Active Directory that contains the users
shown in the following table. Now you have three users of which user one and
user two are member type and user three is guest type and then user two has
onremise sync enabled whereas user one and three do not have. What this tells us is user 2 is a
re is a user which was created in on-prem active directory and has been synced to Azure active directory. This
is a critical thing in this question here. You need to modify the job title and usage location attributes for the
users. For which user can you modify the attributes from Azure? Now for the first
question part of this question the attribute that you are modifying is job
title. And in the answers obviously you have a combination of different users.
So as I was putting emphasis on onprim sync enabled attribute as true for user
2. This was because you must use Windows Server Active Directory to update the
identity contact info or job info for users whose source of authority is
Windows Server Active Directory. And in this case, user 2 has a onremise sync enabled. So you can't update it update
its job title from Azure AD. That means the correct answer here is user one and
user three only. Now in the next part, you are modifying the usage location.
Usage location is something which is set only on the cloud side for all users. So you should be able to update it for all
users from Azure AD irrespective of onremise sync setup which is why the
correct answer here is user 1 2 and three all of them. Before we proceed folks I would like to introduce you to
my topmate profile. If you are seeking guidance on clearing certification exams, considering a career transition
into DevOps or cloud computing, or require support with resume reviews or
mock interviews, you can easily schedule a one-to-one session with me via
topmate. You will also find digital products available for purchase
including PDF version of all the certification questions featured on the
channel. PDF will be available for download instantly as soon as purchase is completed. For any specific queries,
feel free to use the priority DM option. I will respond as soon as possible. Do
not forget to take advantage of the tips and coupon codes available at the top of
my top profile to enjoy these benefits at minimal cost. Friends, link to my
topmate profile is available in the description section of this video. Let's look at next question.
You have an Azure storage account named storage one. You have an Azure app service named app 1 and an app named app
2 that runs in an Azure container instance. Each app uses a managed identity. You
need to ensure that app one and app 2 can read blobs from storage one. The
solution must meet the following requirements and your requirements are minimize the number of secrets used.
Ensure that app 2 can only read from storage one for the next 30 days. What
should you configure in storage one for each app?
And the first part of the question is talking about app one and the options
are advanced security access control or IM access keys shared access signatures
also called as SAS. As you would have read in the question both the apps use managed identity.
So the app one can use the storage account via AM.
As per the requirement, we need to minimize the number of secrets used. So
access key is not an ideal option here. You always need to focus on the
requirements as well because due to different requirements, the option that you choose as a solution will change in
most of the cases. Here you could have easily chosen access keys as well because obviously that's a better method
of access but the question has a requirement to minimize the number of secrets used that's why we have chosen
IM as our option. Now for app two you have a specific requirement here in the
question that app 2 needs the ability to only read data from storage one for the
next 30 days. So we are talking about temporary credentials and for that we
will create a shared access signature token which is SAS with a validity of 30
days that will allow read access to the necessary containers or blobs.
Now when creating a SAS token you can scope it to specific containers blobs and operations which helps you control
the level of access app 2 has during the 30-day period.
So I hope friends you have understood why I have chosen access control for app
one and why I have chosen SAS for app 2. If you have any doubts in the questions
and answers that I am choosing throughout the series and you think there are some issues which uh have led
me to choosing wrong options then post them in the comment section and we will
be happy to resolve your queries. And in case we have chosen a wrong option, we
will make amendments. Let's look at question number 77.
You need to create an Azure storage account that meets the following requirements. Now, the requirements are
minimize costs, support hot, cool, and archive blob tiers. Provide fault
tolerance if a disaster affects the Azure region where the account resides. Select the appropriate options to
complete the command you should use. Your command is a storage account
create. Then RG1 is the name of the resource group. Storage account one is
the name of the storage account. Now you need to choose which kind of storage you will create and which is the SKU you
will use. Out of the option provided in the question, it's only storage v2 kind
that supports hot cool and archive blob tiers making it the correct choice here.
Now the other requirement here is fault tolerance if a disaster affects the
Azure region where the account resides. So the right SQ that needs to be chosen
here will be standard GRS.
So again as I was telling you in the previous question it is the requirements the small keywords in the requirement
that can change your correct answer. So please pay attention to the requirements.
Question number 78 of the series. You plan to use the Azure import export
service to copy files to a storage account. Which two files should you create before you prepare the drives for
the import job? Your options are a data set CSV file, an XML manifest file, a
JSON configuration file, a drive set CSV file, a PowerShell PS1 file. And the
correct answers here are option A and option D, a data set CSV file and a
drive set CSV file. You can refer to the link on your screen to understand the
detailed steps to be followed when preparing drives for the import jobs as there are many more things that you need
to do apart from just creating these two files. Question number 79.
You create an Azure storage account. You plan to add 15 blob containers to the
storage account. for one of the containers you need to use a different key to encrypt data at rest. What should
you do before you create the container? So basically you have an Azure storage
account and you plan to add 15 blob containers to that account but you need
to use a different key to encrypt data at rest for one of the containers.
That is the requirement of the question. Now your options are modify the minimum TLS version, rotate the access keys,
create an encryption scope, generate a shared access signature.
Before you create the container and use a different key to encrypt data at rest, you should create an encryption scope,
which is option C here. An encryption scope is a feature that allows you to
use different keys to encrypt data for specific containers within an Azure storage account. By creating an
encryption scope, you can associate it with the container that needs to use a
different key for encryption which is one of the requirement of this question.
Question number 80. You have an Azure subscription. You plan to deploy a new
storage account. You need to configure encryption for the account and the solution must meet the following
requirements. Use the maximum supported bit length. Use a customer managed key
stored in a key vault. Which type of key and which bit length should you use? Now
in the keys you have AES, RSA and 3DES. And the bit length here is 2048, 3072,
4096 and 8192. Azure storage encryption supports RSA
and RSA HSM keys of sizes 24 2048, 3072
and 4096. Based on that the correct options here are key would be RSA and bit length
would be 4096 that is the maximum bit length which is supported. So automatically 8192 is not
the right options and since the question says question since one of the
requirements in the question is use the maximum supported bit length that is the reason we have chosen 4096 and not 2048
or 3072. You have an Azure load balancer named
LB1. You assign a user named user 1 the roles shown in the following exhibit.
Now there is a exhibit uh screenshot on your screen where you can see the roles
that are assigned. Now looking at this exhibit you can see user one has two roles assigned for LP1 which is user
access administrator and virtual machine contributor. User
access administrator is directly applied for this resource. As you can see the scope is this resource whereas virtual
machine contributor is inherited from resource group level. Keeping this in
mind let's look at next part of this question. Select the answer choice that completes
each statement based on the information presented in the graphic section on
previous slide. User one can dash LB1.
So the first role was user administrator and based on the role name you can say
correct answer for this case would be assign access to other users for LP1.
Next statement is user one can dash the resource group.
The second role was virtual machine contributor and based on it the correct
answer would be delete a virtual machine from resource group.
The other options modify the load balancing rules or
deploy an Azure Kubernetes service cluster to the resource group are not
relevant options here. Let's look at next question.
You recently created a new Azure subscription that contains a user named admin 1. Admin one attempts to deploy an
Azure marketplace resource by using an Azure resource manager template. Admin
one deploys the template by using Azure PowerShell and receives the following
error and the error is user failed validation to purchase resources. Error
message says legal terms have not been accepted for this item on this subscription. To accept legal terms,
please go to the Azure portal. Then you have a link with more details and configure programmatic deployment for
the marketplace item or create it there for the first time. You need to ensure
that admin one can deploy the marketplace resource successfully. What should you do? So basically someone is
trying to uh deploy a marketplace resource and they are getting a error message where uh they can see legal
terms have not been accepted for this item on this subscription. So what should you do so that you could
do the deployment successfully? Your options are from Azure portal uh sorry
from Azure PowerShell run the set- API management subscription commandlet from
Azure PowerShell run the set- A marketplace terms command lelet from the
Azure portal register the machine.marketplace resource provider from the Azure portal assign the billing
administrator role to admin one to resolve the error message and enable
admin One, to deploy the Azure marketplace resource successfully, you need to accept the legal terms for the
marketplace resource in the Azure portal. To do this programmatically, you can use the set- a marketplace terms
commandlet in Azure portal to accept the legal terms for the subscription. The
commandlet takes the name of the publisher, the name of the offer and the
terms agreement types as parameters. Once the legal terms have been accepted,
the user should be able to deploy the marketplace resource successfully. You
only need to accept terms once per subscription for the resource and be sure to use all lowercase letters in the
parameter values. Question number 83 of the series. You
have an Azure subscription that contains the resources shown in the following table. Now the resources are um a
resource group and a virtual network. Resource group names name is RG3 and the
virtual network name is VNET 1. And then there are some tags defined. Resource
group doesn't have any tag but VNET 1 has an existing tag called department
D1. And obviously RG3 is not member of
any resource group and V vet one belongs to RG3 resource group. Now you need to
assign a policy to RG3 as shown in the following table. Now in the table again
uh there are details of the policy where the scope is defined as the scope is
drilled down to only resource group level and then there are no exclusions defined and the policy is going to apply
a tag and its default value and the parameters for the tags are the tag name
is level one and the value is value one. Now the question is to RG3 you apply the
tag R group colon RG3 you deploy a virtual network named VNET 2 to RG3.
Which tags apply to VNET 1 and VNET 2? To answer you need to select the
appropriate options below. Now for VNET one you have options as department D1
only, department D1 and R groupoup RG3 only, department D1 and level value one
only, department D1, R groupoup RG3 and level value one.
Whenever you have questions related to assignment of a new policy then remember by default the assignment of newly
created policy will only take effect on the newly created resources that is the
resources that are going to be created after the policy has been applied.
Existing resources will need to be updated you updated using a remediation
task after the policy is assigned. Here in this case there is no mention of a
remediation task. So VNET 1 will only have one existing tag which is
department D1 only. Now for VNET 2,
VNET 2 was created after the policy was applied. So it will get label V value
one. And remember resources don't inherit the tags you apply to a resource
group or a subscription. So VNET 2 will only have one tag which is label value
one. So folks I hope this has uh cleared you how the inheritance of tags happens in
Azure and how the nesting can take
place. If you have any doubts rel related to applications of tag, please
post your questions in the comment section and we will try to answer them as soon as possible. Meanwhile, let's
look at next question. You have an Azure subscription that contains the resources shown in the
following table. Now you have four resources of which two are resource group. One is
with the name of RG1 and the other one is RG2. Then you have a storage one which is obviously a storage account uh
hosted in RG1 and then you have a workspace one which is Azure Synapse
Analytics workspace and is hosted in resource group two. You need to assign
workspace one a role to allow read, write and delete operations for the data
stored in the containers of storage one. Which role should you assign? Your
options are reader and data access storage account contributor
contributor storage blob data contributor. To allow
workspace one to perform read, write and delete operations for the data stored in
the containers of storage one in Azure, you should assign the storage blob data
contributor role to workspace one. The storage blog data contributor role
provides the necessary permissions to perform these actions on Azure blob
storage containers and their data making it the appropriate choice for your scenario.
Question number 85 of the series. You have an Azure AD tenant that contains
the groups shown in the following table. Now you have four groups listed there and then you have their types listed. So
group A, group one is security based, group two is male enabled security based
and group three and four are Microsoft 365 groups and as the name indicates for
group 1 2 and three the security is enabled whereas for group four the security is disabled. You purchase Azure
Active Directory Premium P2 licenses. To which groups can you assign a license?
Your options are group one only, group one and group three only, group three
and group four only, group one, group two and group three only, group 1 2 3
and four. Assigning a P2 license can only be used with
security groups and Microsoft 365 groups that have security enabled. So in this
case even though group 1, three and four fall into the category of allowed group
types but group four doesn't have security enabled. So the correct answer
is option B. Group one and group three only.
Next question. You have an Azure subscription that contains a storage account named storage one. You have the
devices shown in the following table. Uh there are three devices with the name of
device 1 2 and 3 and the platform for them is Windows 10, Linux and Mac OS.
For which devices can you use a copy to copy data to storage one? Your options
are device one only, device one and two only, device 1 and three only, device 1,
2 and 3. AZ copies supported in all the three
operating systems mentioned in this question. So the correct answer would be option D device 1 2 and three.
Question number 87 of the series. You have an Azure subscription. The subscription contains storage account
named storage one that has the life cycle management rules shown in the following table.
You have three rules listed. Rule one, rule two, rule three. And if base blobs
were not modified for more than 5 days, then there are some rules defined. So
for rule one, the rule defined is move to pool storage.
For rule two, the option is delete the blob. And for rule three, the option is
move to archive storage. On July 1, you store a blob named file one in the hot
access tier of storage one. What is the state of file 1 on July 7? So when you
move from July 1 to July 7, you have already exceeded
more than 5 days. The difference between July 1 and July 7 is more than 5 days. So all the three rules will come into
picture. So the options given to you are
on July 7 it will be stored in the hot access tier or it will be stored in the cool access tier or it will be stored in
the archive access year or the file will get deleted. This is definitely a trick
question as all the three rules have an action defined after 5 days of last modification. So all of them will apply
to the blob at the same time in this case. Whenever you have such life cycle
management rules defined then life cycle management applies the least expensive
option to the blob. So action to move to archive is cheaper
than to move to cool and delete is cheaper than move to archive. So the
correct answer here is file one will be deleted in this case because every rule
is being applied at same time. So by default life cycle management chooses the cheapest option that's why the file
will be deleted. Next question.
You plan to deploy an Azure container instance by using the following Azure resource manager template.
Now you have a template on your screen. Before proceeding forward, let's try to
understand the template as the question is completely reliant on what you
understand in this template. So type tells you that container
resource is being deployed. Location as I have highlighted now specifies it is
being deployed in the west US region. Then properties
element defines the properties which are specific to each container being created. Here we are deploying just one
container whose name is
web. From the image property, you can tell a version of Microsoft
is server is being deployed whose communication will happen on TCP port
80. It further tells you that the memory and CPU specifications as well where you can
see the memory in GB is 1.5 and there is one CPU allocated.
Then the container restart policy is defined as on failure. This is a
critical thing to understand here. It means that the container will restart if
is communication on port 80 fails because these are the ports defined here.
Now key thing to note here is IP address being defined as public
which means the container app will be publicly accessible.
This is a hint to the questions that you are going to see next. Finally, then the
OS type is defined as Windows which tells us that container is
hosted on Windows platform. This is not the anything related to the OS of the
client. It is the OS of the container. Let's now look at next part of this
question. Use the drop- down menus to select the answer choice that completes
each statement based on the information presented in the template.
The first question is internet users and then you have three options. Cannot
connect to that container. Can connect to the container from any device. can
only connect to the container from devices that run Windows. So remember the IP was defined as a
public IP that means internet users can
connect to this container from any device. Now the second
statement is if internet information services in container fail your options
are the container will restart automatically. the container will only restart manually. The container must be
redeployed and the correct answer would be the container will restart automatically because the failure
condition was defined as restart. So that's the reason why I was telling
you to focus on the conditions that are mentioned there. Whenever you will get questions related to ARM templates and
then you will have some statements most likely the answers would be in the conditions rather than the uh things
that were defined at the top. What are the properties of the container? The the the question will most likely be around
the conditions which are at the bottom of the ARM template. Question number 89 of the series. You
have an AGR subscription. You plan to deploy the Azure container instances
shown in the following table. There are four instances with the name of instance 1 2 3 and four. And then the operating
system of the instances is mentioned. Instance one uses nanoerver installation of Windows Server 2019. Instance 2 uses
server core installation of Windows Server 2019 and instant three and four
are Linux based. Which instance can you deploy to a container group? So basically here the question is you have
different container instances and you want to make use of container groups which all instances can be hosted in a
container group. Your options are instance one only, instance two only,
instance one and instance two only, instance three and instance 4 only. Multicontainer groups currently support
only Linux containers. For Windows containers, AGR container instances only
support deployment of a single container instance. So based on this statement, correct answer would be option B because
in the table you can see instance three and instance 4 are only based of Linux.
You will only be able to deploy instance 3 and instance 4 in a container group in
this case. Next question. You have two Azure virtual networks named VNET 1 and VNET
2. VNET 1 contains an Azure virtual machine named VNET VM1. VNET 2 contains
an Azure virtual machine named VM2. VM1 hosts a front-end application that
connects to VM2 to receive data. Users report that the front-end application is
slower than usual. You need to view the average round trip time RT of the
packets from VM1 to VM2. Which Azure network watcher feature should you use?
Your options are connection troubleshoot, connection monitor, NSG
flow logs, IP flow verify. To view the average roundtrip time RTP of packets
from VM1 to VM2 in Azure, you should use the connection monitor feature of Azure
network watcher. Connection monitor allows you to monitor the connectivity between two virtual
machines and provides information about latency, packet loss and other network
metrices which will help you diagnose network performance issues like the
reported slow front-end application. You have an AGR subscription. You create
the AGR storage account shown in the following exhibit. Now in the exhibit you have a screenshot basically showing
you the uh creation of the storage account. Basically the validation has
passed and uh there are certain properties that you can see on the screen. Uh some of the notable
properties are it is being created in a subscription named subscription one and the resource is created in the resource
group RG1 where its location is North Europe and the storage account name is
storage 16852. Uh now the notable properties are the account kind is storage V2 that is
general purpose V2. The replication that is being used is locally redundant
storage which is LRS and the access tier is hot. Uh the connectivity method is
private endpoint. Uh you need to pay attention to the properties which are in this exhibit because the next question
is based on the properties that are being chosen while creating this storage account. So let's look at the next part
of this question. Select the answer choice that completes each statement
based on the information provided in the screenshot in previous tab. Now the
first statement is the minimum number of copies of the storage account will be
your options are 1 2 3 or four. You would have seen in the properties of the
storage account it was mentioned that it is uh using the replication type as locally redundant storage. The locally
redundant storage replicates your storage account three times within a single data center in the primary
region. Therefore, the correct answer here would be three. Now, the next statement is to reduce the cost of
infrequently accessed data in the storage account, you must modify the
access tier setting, performance setting, account kind.
The correct answer here would be accessed here as it has the cool option to store infrequently accessed data but
when the account was being created you would have seen the tier that was chosen was hot tier and it doesn't make sense
to keep infrequently access data in hot tier. So to reduce the cost you are
going to modify the access tier setting and choose it as a cold tier.
Let's look at next question. How can you efficiently transfer
hundreds of terabytes of media files from your organization's online library
to Azure given the limited bandwidth of your data center? Your solution should
be fast, cost effective and dependable and it must ensure 25bit encryption.
What choice will you make? Your options are datab box edge upload using a gr
portal import export datab box heavy. There are lots of keywords in this
question which you need to pay attention. The option that you are choosing must support and ensure you are
using 256-bit encryption. It should be fast, cost effective and dependable. And
also you have limited bandwidth for your data center.
So let's start by ruling out the incorrect options. Upload using Azure portal. This option
is not suitable for efficiently transferring hundreds of terabytes of data due to the limited bandwidth of
your data center. Uploading such a large amount of data over the internet can be
slow and costly. However, the question says you need to have a fast and cost
effective solution. This option may also lead to downtime and negatively impact
other internet traffic. Additionally, ensuring 256bit encryption for the data
transfer might be challenging when using this method. Databox edge. Databox edge is designed
for edge computing and data processing at the edge rather than large scale data
transfer from an organization's data center to HR. While it can be used for data transfer in certain scenarios, it's
not the most efficient choice for transferring hundreds of terabytes of data, especially if the primary concern
is limited bandwidth of your data center. So that's why it's very important to pay attention to the
keywords in the question because whatever is the requirement, it might be
possible that you can accomplish it using all four options. But there is a
keyword fast cost effective which might rule out some of the options. The third
option import export. It refers to the Azure service for offline data transfer
but it's generally used for smaller scale data transfer involving hard
drives and shipping them to Azure. For hundreds of terabytes of data, this approach can become cumbersome and time
consuming, which leaves us with only one correct answer, which is databox heavy.
Option D. Databox heavy is the most suitable choice for effectively
transferring hundreds of terabytes of media files from your organization's online library to Azure, especially when
you have limited bandwidth in your data center and you have requirement to maintain 256-bit
encryption. Next question. You have an Azure web app
named app one. App one has the deployment slots shown in the following
table. Now the names are web app one-ash broad and then the other one is web app
1- test. The function is for prod one is production for test one is staging. You
test several changes to app one in web app 1- test. You back up app one. You
swap web app 1- test for web app 1-road and discover that app 1 is experiencing
performance issues. You need to revert to the previous version of app 1 as
quickly as possible. What should you do? Your options are clone app one, redeploy
app one, swap the slots, restore the backup of app one to revert to the
previous version of app one as quickly as possible. After swapping web app 1-
test for web app 1- fraud and experiencing performance issues, you
should use the swap the slots option. However, in this case, you will need to perform a reverse swap to undo the
changes made during the previous swap. To do this, what you will do is once you
are in the Azure portal, you will go to the Azure web app which is app one in
this case and you will click on the deployment slots of it. You will see the deployment slot listed there and then
you need to just click on swab button. In the swab blade that appears, you need
to select web app 1- fraud as the source slot and web app 1- test as the target
slot. Make sure to select swap with preview option. This allows
you to review the changes before the actual SL swap occurs. It will show you
the changes that will be made during the swap. Now, as soon as you click the swap button, the reverse swap is initiated.
This will effectively revert your production slot back to the previous version that was in web app 1- test
which was your backup. This process allows you to quickly revert to the last
known good state without the performance issues. And the other options which are
cloning, redeploying or restoring the backup might be valid approaches in different scenarios. But given the
context of swapping slots and the need for a quick roll back, using the swap
the slots option with reverse swap is the most appropriate choice here.
Question number 94 of the series. You have Azure Active Directory tenant named
pintoso.com that includes following users. Now the users are user one and
two and their roles are cloud device administrator and user administrator.
ktoso.com includes following Windows 10 devices. Devices are device one is Azure AD
registered and device 2 is Azure AD joined. You create following security
groups in conter.com. Group one is having membership type as
assigned and the owner is user two. Whereas group two has the membership type defined as dynamic device and again
its owner is user 2. For each of the following statements you
need to select if the yes if the statement is true otherwise you need to select no. The first statement is user
one can add device 2 to group one. This is incorrect as even though user
one is cloud device admin but this role doesn't provide privileges to add join
devices. Now the next statement is user two can
add device one to group one. This one is correct as user two is the owner of
group one so can perform the necessary action. The third statement is user two can add
device two to group two. This is incorrect as device 2 is a dynamic group
and you cannot alter the ownership of a dynamic group manually.
Let's look at next question. Your company wants to move all services
to Azure Kubernetes service as part of application modernization.
Which two of the following components contribute to the monthly Azure charge?
Your options are networking resources, per deployed pod, master node, per node
VM. When using Azure Kubernetes service or AKS, the two components that
contribute to the monthly Azure charges are networking resources and per node
VM. Networking resources includes the cost
of the networking resources you use within the AKS cluster such as load balancers, public IPs, and data transfer
in and out of your AKS cluster. Per node VM means you are charged for the virtual
machine used as nodes in your AKS cluster. The number of nodes and their
configuration size directly impacts the cost. You are build for the compute
resources of these VMs. Next question. Your Azure subscription
contains an Azure storage account. You need to create an Azure container
instance named container one that will use a Docker image named image one.
Image one contains a Microsoft SQL Server instance that requires persistent
storage. You need to configure a storage service for container one. What should
you use? Your options are Azure blob storage, Azure files, Azure Q storage,
Azure table storage. To provide persistent storage for an
Azure container instance running a Docker image that requires storage, you should use Azure files.
Azure files allow you to create a share that can be mounted as a volume in an
Azure container instance providing a means of persistent storage. This is
suitable for scenarios where you need to store data that should persist even if the container instance is stopped or
deleted. In this case, since we are running a Microsoft SQL Server instance in a Docker container, Azure Files is a
suitable choice for providing storage that can be accessed by the SQL Server container.
Question number 97 of the series. You create the following resources in a
subscription. The resources are an Azure container registry instance named registry 1 and
Azure Kubernetes service cluster named cluster 1. You create a container image
named app one on your administrative workstation. You need to deploy app one
to cluster one. What should you do first? Your options are run the cube cd1 apply
command. Run the ags create command. Run the docker push command. Create a host
pool on cluster one. To deploy a container image named app one to an
Azure Kubernetes service cluster named cluster one. The first step you should take is run the docker push command.
Once the container image is in Azure container registry, you can proceed with deploying it to cluster one using
Kubernetes manifest and the cubectl apply command.
Assuming you have the necessary Kubernetes deployment configuration file ready, you do not need to create a host
pool on cluster 1 or use the aks create command for this specific task. Which is
why the correct answer here is option C. Run the docker push command.
Next question. You have an Azure storage account named storage one that contains
a blob container. The blob container has a default access tier of hot. Storage
one contains a container named container one. You create life cycle management
rules in storage one as shown in the following table. Now the first rule
which is named as rule one. The scope is limits blob by using filters and there
is a prefix match set on it which is container/devops 1 and the rule is if base blobs are not
modified for 2 days move to archive storage. If base blobs are not modified
for 9 days delete the blob. Then there is a rule two which applies to all blobs
in storage one which means there is no prefix match applicable here. And the
rule is if base blobs are not modified for 7 days move to pool storage. If base
blobs are not modified for 9 days move to archive storage.
So you perform the actions shown in the below table. On November 1, you upload
three files named DevOps one, file one, file two, and file three to container
one. On November 2, you edit DevOps one file one and file three. And on November
3, you edit file two. For each of the following statements below, you need to
select if the statement is true, otherwise select no. And the first statement is on November 10, you can
read DevOps 1 file one. DevOps one file one was effectively last modified on de
November 2 and based on its name rule one will apply to it. So after 2 days
which is 5th November it will be moved to archived year and then next
transition happens on 9th day which is after 10th of November. So it will still
be in archived here when you are trying to read it and you cannot read the file without rehydrating it. So the statement
is incorrect. Now the next statement is on November 10
you can read file 2 docs. Rule two will apply to file 2 which was last modified
on November 3 and based on rule two it will be in cool tier on 10th November.
So you will be able to read it. Third statement is on November 10th you
can read file three dot docs. Again rule two will apply to file three
which was last modified on November 2 and based on rule two it will be in cold
tier on 10th November. So you will be able to read it.
Which of the following are an element of template schema? Your options are
parameters, includes, outputs, script.
The elements of a template schema typically include parameters and outputs.
Parameters are variables or inputs that can be defined when creating or using a
template. They allow you to customize the behavior of the template by
providing values for these parameters. Outputs are the results or data produced
by a template after it has been executed. These outputs can be used for various purposes such as displaying
information or passing data to other parts of a workflow.
You have an Azure virtual machine that has a single data disck.
You have been tasked with attaching this data disc to another Azure VM. You need
to make sure that your strategy allows for the virtual machines to be offline
for the least amount of time possible. Which of the following is the action you
should take first? Your options are stop the VM that the data disck must be attached to, detach
the data disk, delete the VM that includes the data disk, stop the VM that
includes the data disk. A VM in Azure has always its own OS disk. A single
data disk means that it is using an additional disk configured to store data. So basically it has two disks and
it won't cause any problem to detach the data disk and then reattach it to other
VM. So the correct answer is option B. Detach the data discs.
You have an Azure subscription that contains a storage account named storage one. The storage one account contains a
file share named share one. The subscription is linked to a hybrid Azure
Active Directory tenant that contains a security group named group one. You need
to grant group one the storage file data SMB share elevated contributor role for
share one. What should you do first? Your options are grant share level
permissions by using file explorer. Mount share one by using file explorer.
Create a private endpoint. Enable Azure Active Directory domain service
authentication for storage one to grant group one the storage file data
SMB share elevated contributor role for share one in an Azure storage account
linked to a hybrid Azure AD tenant. You should enable Azure Active Directory
domain services authentication for storage one. Enabling Azure AD domain
services authentication allows you to use Azure AD based identities including
security groups like group one to manage access to Azure files assembly share.
Once adds authentication is configured, you can assign Azure ARB roles like
storage, file data, SMD, share, elevated contributor to Azure AD security groups
granting them access to specific Azure resources like share one. The other
options grant share level permissions by using file explorer or mount share one
by using file explorer are related to configuring Azure uh configuring access
from client machines but do not grant ARVC roles. Creating a private endpoint
is important for network security but does not directly grant arc roles either
which is why the other three options are not correct in this case.
Question number one under two of the series. Your onremise network contains a VPN gateway.
You have an Azure subscription that contains the resources shown in the following table. Now you have a resource
named VGW1 which is of virtual network gateway type and the description for the
resource is gateway for sight toightVPN to the onremise network. Then you have a
storage one which is a storage account and it has a standard performance layer
defined. Then you have a virtual network VNET one which has enabled forced
tunneling. Then you have a virtual machine named VM1 which is connected to VNET 1. You need to ensure that all the
traffic from VM1 to storage one travels across the Microsoft backbone network.
What should you con configure? Whenever there is a mention of that the traffic
needs to go through Microsoft backbone network that essentially means that you
need to avoid going through internet and have some private connection. Now the
options here are Azure virtual van private endpoints Azure application
gateway a network security group. As I mentioned, you can use private endpoints
for your Azure storage accounts to allow clients on a virtual network to securely
access data over a private link. The private endpoint uses a separate IP
address from the VNET address space for each storage account service. Network
traffic between the clients on the VNET and the storage account traverses over the VNET and a private link on the
Microsoft backbone network eliminating exposure from the public internet.
Next question. You have an Azure AD tenant. You need to create a Microsoft
365 group that contains only members of marketing department in Egypt. How
should you complete the dynamic membership rule? To answer, you need to select the appropriate options in the
below command. The command is now on your screen.
The correct answers are as follows. As the M365 group should exclusively
include members of the marketing department and be restricted to individuals from the Egypt region, you
will select user department in the first drop-down to represent the department condition. To ensure that only users
meeting both criterias are considered for group membership, you will establish
an AND condition. Ensuring both conditions are met before a user is
added to the group. And dash EQ is the third condition that
you will choose because you want to make sure that only the users in marketing
department of Egypt are included in the dynamic membership of the group.
Question number 104 of the series. You have an Azure subscription that contains
a storage account named storage one. The storage one account contains a container
named container one. You create a blob life cycle rule named rule one. You need
to configure rule one to automatically move blobs that were not updated for 45
days from container to the cool access tier. So the condition here is you need
to move the blobs to the cool access tier if they are not updated for 45 days. How should you complete the rule?
To answer, select the appropriate options. Now you have a snippet of the ARM template where tier to pool is
mentioned and then column 45 is mentioned and then you have three options. The options are days after
creation greater than, days after last access time, greater than and days after
modification greater than. Since we are talking about moving to pool tier after
the blob hasn't been updated for 45 days, then the correct answer among the choices would be days after modification
greater than. Other options which are days after creation greater than and
days after last access time greater than won't be correct choice in this case.
Days after creation won't take into consideration a blob being modified after creation and will incorrectly move
the blob to cool tier after 45 days from being created even though it might have
been modified after any number of days. Similarly, days after last access time
greater than would again not take into consideration the modification as there
might be a situation where a blob is not modified for 45 days but accesses
regularly. So it won't be moved to cool tier where it should have been moved.
Now you have the second condition here in the filters in the blob types you
have three options. Append blob, block blob, page blob.
Tier 2 pool is only supported for blob blob make block blob making it the
correct choice here. Now on your screen there is a snippet
from Microsoft website which confirms the action applicable to the blob types. As you can see the whether it's a tier
to cool or it's tier to cold or it's tier to archive or it is enabled auto
tier to hot from cool they only support block blob but when it comes to delete
action the support is for block blob and append blob as well. So this question
can have multiple variations based on the action defined in the question
condition. If if the condition would have been delete then obviously the answer would have changed from just
block blob to block blob and append blob.
Next question. You have an Azure subscription that contains a virtual machine named VM1.
You plan to add a 1TB data disk to VM that meets the following requirements.
Your requirements are provides data resiliency in the event of a data center
outage. Ensures that no data loss occurs if a host fails. Provides the lowest
latency and highest performance. You need to recommend which type of storage
and host caching to configure for the new data disk. What will be your
recommendation? Now the first one is this question has multiple uh sub questions. So the first one is you need
to tell which storage type you will choose. Your options are premium SSD that uses locally redundant storage.
Then the next one is premium SSD that uses zone redundant storage. Third one
is standard SSD that uses locally redundant storage. And the final storage
type in the options is standard SSD that uses zone redundant storage based on the
requirements for data resiliency. No data loss, lowest latency, and highest
performance. The recommended storage type for the new 1TB data disk on VM1
would be premium SSD that uses zone redundant storage. Let's look at each
requirement and understand why I have chosen premium SSD that uses ZRS. Data
resiliency. Zone redundant storage replicates your data across availability zones, ensuring
data resiliency even in the event of a data center outage. This means that your
data is stored in multiple physically separate locations within the same Azure
region which satisfies your requirement first
requirement of data resiliency. Now the second requirement was no data loss.
Premium SSDs are designed for high performance and low latency and they
offer data durability guarantees. In the event of a host failure, data loss is
minimized because of the redundancy and resiliency features provided by Azure.
Now the third requirement is lowest latency and the highest performance.
Premium SSDs provide the lowest latency and highest performance among the storage options. They are ideal for
workloads that require fast input output operations.
Standard SSDs on the other hand provide a lower level of performance compared to premium SSDs and they may not meet the
performance requirements stated in this question. Additionally, locally
redundant storage replicates data within a storage scale unit, but it does not
provide the same level of resiliency as zone redundant storage, which is the
reason option B is correct here. Premium SSD that uses zone redundant storage.
Now, the next part of the question was host caching. The options you have are you either
choose none, you either choose read only or you choose read write. For this
scenario, it is recommended to use read only host caching.
Read only caching can help improve read performance while ensuring data
consistency and minimizing the risk of data loss.
Next question. You have an Azure virtual machine named VM1. VM1 was deployed by using a custom
Azure resource manager template named ARM1.json.
You receive a notification that VM1 will be affected by maintenance. You need to
move VM1 to a different host immediately. The solution you provide is from the
update management plate. You click enable. Does this meet the goal? You need to
choose between yes or no. Clicking enable from the update management blade
will not meet the goal of immediately moving V1 VM1 to a different host. You
will need to redeploy the VM to move it to a different host. If the question would have been in the solution option
you had you will redeploy the VM to move it to a different host then your answer
would have been yes. Here question number 107 of the series. You
have an Azure storage account named storage one that contains a blob container named container one. You need
to prevent new content added to container one for from being modified for one year. What should you configure?
Your options are the access level, the access tier, an access policy, the
access control IM settings to prevent new content from being to prevent new
content added to container one in your Azure storage account from being modified for one year. You should
configure the access policy. The access policies allow you to set
timebased restrictions on the operations that can be performed on the blob container.
Let's look at next question. You have an Azure subscription. You are
deploying an Azure Kubernetes service AKS cluster that will contain multiple pods. The pods will use Kubernet
networking. You need to restrict network traffic between the pods. What should
you configure on the AKS cluster? Your options are Azure network policy, Calico
network policy, pod security policies, application security group
to restrict network traffic between pods in an Azure Kubernetes cluster using Kubernetes networking. You should
configure the Azure network policy. The other option mentioned are also
related to security and network policy in Kubernetes but they are not specific to AKS or directly address the board to
board network traffic control. Teleico network policy is a popular
network plug-in used with Kubernetes but you would need to integrate it separately with AKS. It can be used for
network policies but it is not the built-in AKS solution. Pod security policies are used to
control the security aspects of pods such as what privileges they have which
important for overall cluster security.
They do not directly control network traffic between parts.
Application security groups are typically used in the context of Azure network security groups NSDs to define
network security rules for virtual machines. They are not used for controlling network traffic between
parts in AKS making them the incorrect choice here.
Next question. You host a service with two Azure virtual machines. You discover
that occasional outages cause your service to fail. What two actions can
you do to minimize the impact of the outages? So you need to choose two options here. Your options are put the
virtual machines in a scale set, add a network gateway, add a load balancer,
add a third instance of the virtual machine, put the virtual machines in an
availability set to minimize the impact of occasional outages. for a service
hosted on Azure virtual machines. You can add a load balancer and put the virtual machines in an availability set.
Making these two the correct choices here. Load balancers distribute incoming
network traffic across multiple virtual machines to ensure high availability and fall tolerance. By adding a load
balancer, you can improve the service reliability and minimize the impact of outages by spreading traffic across
multiple VMs. And the other option, the availability set is a logical grouping of virtual
machines in a data center to ensure that during planned or unplanned maintenance
events, at least one virtual machine is available. By placing VMs in an
availability set, you ensure that they are distributed across multiple fault
domains and update domains, reducing the risk of outages caused by host level
maintenance or failures. Now let's look at why other options are not correct. The first one being put the
virtual machines in a scale set. A scale set is used to automatically adjust the number of virtual machines instances
based on demand. While it can help with scaling, it doesn't inherently provide
fall tolerance or high availability unless you configure it with an appropriate number of instances across
availability zones. The next option which is option B add a network gateway.
A network gateway is typically used for connecting onremise networks or remote
networks to Azure and it does not directly address virtual machine high availability.
Then option D add a third instance of the virtual machine. While adding more virtual machine instances can help
distribute the load it doesn't inherently provide fall tolerance or high availability. the virtual machines
need to be organized into an appropriate architecture or configuration to ensure high availability. So I hope friends you
you understand now why option C and option E are chosen as the correct
options. If you still have any doubts in any of the questions which we have had in this series till now, please post
them in the comment section and I'll answer them as soon as possible as I always do. Meanwhile, let's look at
question number 110 of the series. You have an Azure subscription named
subscription one. In subscription one, you create an alert rule named alert
one. The alert one action group is configured as shown in the following
exhibit. There is a exhibit on your screen which tells few details about the
alert that has been configured. The alert one alert criteria is to be triggered every minute. So remember
because this is key to answer answer the questions which we'll you you'll just see alert one can trigger criteria is to
be triggered every minute. Now you need to select the answer choice that completes each statement based on the
information presented in this graphic. So the first statement is the number of
email messages that alert one will send in an hour is your options are 0 4 6 12
and 60. Since the alert is triggered every minute, so it will generate 60
email messages in an hour. Now the next one is the number of SMS
messages that alert one will send in an hour is the options are same 0 4 6 12
60. You can't send more than one SMS every 5
minutes. So you will be able to send a maximum of 12 SMSs in an hour.
The rate limit that apply to alert apart from the SMS one already mentioned are
you cannot make more than one voice call every 5 minutes and you cannot send more
than 100 emails in an hour. You have a subscription that includes
following Azure file shares. There are two file shares with the name of share
one and share two. They are hosted in storage account one and their location is west US. You have the following
onremise service. There are two servers server one and server two. Uh server one has uh two
folders uh named as folder one and folder two which are hosted in B and E
drive respectively. Then server two has a folder named data which is hosted in D drive. You create a storage sync service
named sync one and an Azure file sync group named group one. Group one uses
share one as a cloud endpoint. You register server one and server two in
sync one. You add default one on server one as a server endpoint of group one.
For each of the following statements, select yes if the statement is true. Otherwise, select no. Let's look at
first statement. But before we go to that, make sure you have read this
description very carefully as it might get confusing. There is a talk about cloud endpoint. There is a talk about
server endpoint and then there is a talk about sync group as well. So let's look
at first statement. Share two can be added as a cloud endpoint for group one.
You need to tell whether this statement is true or not. A sync group can contain
only one cloud endpoint or Azure file share and at least one server endpoint.
And based on the question statement, group one uses share one as cloud endpoint. So the statement is incorrect.
Share two cannot be added as a cloud endpoint for group one. Now the second
statement is data on server two can be added as a server endpoint for group
one. A sync group can have multiple server endpoints as I stated earlier. So this
statement is correct. Data on server two can be added as a server endpoint for
group one. The third statement is key folder 2 on server one can be added as a
server endpoint for group one. Azure file sync does not support more
than one server endpoint from the same server in the same sync group. So the statement is incorrect. Folder one in D
drive on server one is already added as a server endpoint of group one which is
why you can't add another folder from the same server as endpoint in group one. Friends, I hope this gives you
clarification of why I have chosen whether statement 1, 2 or three are correct or incorrect. If you have any
doubts, please post them in the comment section and I'll try to give you explanation as soon as possible.
Question number 112 of the series. You have an Azure file sync group that has
the endpoints shown in the following table. There are three endpoints with the name of endpoint one, endpoint 2 and endpoint
3. Endpoint one is a cloud endpoint whereas two and three are server endpoint. Cloud peering is enabled for
endpoint 3. You add a file named file one to endpoint one and a file named
file 2 to endpoint 2. On which endpoints will file one and two be available
within 24 hours of adding the files. To answer, select the appropriate options.
So for file one, the options are endpoint.1, endpoint.3, endpoint.2 and
endpoint.3, then endpoint 1, 2, and three. File one was added to endpoint one which
is a cloud endpoint and a cloud endpoint is scanned by the detection job every 24
hours. So file one will be available on endpoint.1 only within 24 hours.
If the question said where it will be available after 24 hours then it would have been available on all endpoints by
then. So the key to answer this question is availability whether within 24 hours
or after 24 hours. So I always recommend you to pay attention to the keywords in
the question because if they would have mentioned available after 24 hours then the answer would have changed and you
would have chosen the last option which is all endpoints. Then let's look at second part of this
question. File two again your options are endpoint 2 only, endpoint 3 only,
endpoint 2 and endpoint 3 only and then endpoint 1, 2 and 3. File 2 was added to
endpoint 2 which is a server endpoint and with the onremise servers the file is scanned and synced automatically
after it's being added. So it will be available on all three endpoints within 24 hours. In this case time frame
doesn't really matter. So the answer will remain same even if the scenario in the question says after 24 hours.
Next question. You have an Azure subscription that contains 10 virtual machines. The virtual networks are
hosted in separate resource groups. Another administrator plans to create
several network resource security groups in the subscription. You need to ensure
that when an NSG is created, it automatically blocks TCP port 8080
between the virtual networks. The solution you provide is from the
resource providers blade, you unregister the Microsoft.classic network provider. You need to tell
whether this solution meets the goal. Unregistering the Microsoft.classic
classic network provider from the resource provider blade will not meet the goal of automatically blocking TCP
port 8080 between the virtual networks. In this case, you need to use a custom
policy definition. You will create a custom policy definition here to achieve the goal.
So for example, if in the solution there was mention of creating a custom policy
definition, then you would have chosen yes, this solution will meet the goal.
Next question. You have a production Azure Active Directory tenant named Contoso.com. You deploy a development
Azure Active Directory tenant and then you create several custom administrative roles in the development tenant. You
need to copy the roles to the production tenant. What should you do first? Your options are from a production tenant
create a new custom role. From the production tenant, create an administrative unit. From the
development tenant, export the custom roles to JSON. From the development
tenant, perform a backup. To copy custom administrative roles from the
development Azure AD tenant to the production Azure ID tenant, you should first export the custom roles to JSON
from the development tenant. Exporting the custom roles to JSON allows you to capture the role
definitions and configurations. After exporting, you can then import these JSON files into the production tenant to
recreate the custom roles with the same settings. This is a common approach for migrating custom roles between Azure AD
tenants. Question number 115 of the series. You
plan to use Azure network watcher to perform the following tasks. The tasks are identify a security rule that
prevents a network packet from reaching an Azure virtual machine. Then the second task is validate outbound
connectivity from an Azure virtual machine to an external host. Which feature should you use for each task? To
answer, select the appropriate option below. Now for task one, the features mentioned are traffic analytics,
security group view, packet capture, next hop, IP flow verify. The correct
answer here is IP flow verify. IP flow verify checks if a packet is
allowed or denied to or from a virtual machine. The information consists of
direction, protocol, local IP, remote IP, local port, and a remote port. If
the packet is denied by a security group, the name of the rule that denied the packet is returned. While any source
or destination IP can be chosen, IP flow verify helps administrators quickly
diagnose connectivity issues from or to the internet and from or to the on-premise environment.
Then we have task two and the options are again same and the correct answer
here would be connection troubleshoot. Connection troubleshoot enables you to
test the connection between a virtual machine, a virtual machine scale set, an
application gateway or a bastion host and a virtual machine, an FQDN, a URI or
an IPv4 address. Next question. You have deployed an
application named app 1 in Azure. App one is deployed on two Azure virtual
machines named VM1 and VM2. You plan to implement an Azure availability set for
app 1. The solution must ensure that app 1 is available during planned
maintenance of the servers hosting VM1 and VM2. What should you include in the
availability set? Your options are single update domain, single fault
domain, two update domains, two fault domains. To ensure that your application
is available during planned maintenance of the servers hosting VM1 and VM2, you
should include two update domains in the availability set. Update domains are used to control the
order in which virtual machines are updated during planned maintenance events such as system updates. By having
two update domains, HGR ensures that VM1 and VM2 are not updated at the same
time. This helps in maintaining application availability during updates.
If the question had a mention of ensuring availability in unplanned maintenance due to hardware failure and
other issues, then you would need to include two fault domains. It is critical you pay attention to these
small keywords. As I always say while answering these questions as the answer changes with just a slight
change in the keyword. Let's look at next question. You have an
AGR subscription that contains the public load balancers shown in the following table. Now you have two load
balancers named LB1 and LB2. LB1 is of basic SKO type and LB2 is of standard
SKO type. You plan to create six virtual machines and to load balance requests to
the virtual machines. Each load balancer will load balance three virtual
machines. You need to create the virtual machines for the planned solution. How should you create the virtual machines?
The virtual machines that will be load balanced by using LB1 must and then you
have four options. Be created in the same resource group. Run the same operating system, be connected to the
same virtual network, be created in the same availability set or virtual machine
scale set. You need to focus here on the SKUs of the load balancers as that's the
key to answer this question. All the data apart from that is literally a distractor and doesn't really make any
difference to the chosen options. LB1 is a basic load balancer which are quite
restrictive and only support load balancing of virtual machines in a single availability set or virtual
machine scale set. So the correct answer here would be the last option be created in the same availability set or virtual
machine scale set. Let's look at next part of this
question. The virtual machines that will be load balanced by using LB2 must your options
are again same but LB2 is a standard load balancer which supports load
balancing of any virtual machine or virtual machine scale set in a single virtual network. So the correct answer
here would be third option be connected to the same virtual network.
Next question. You manage a virtual network named VNET one that is hosted in the East US Azure
region. VNET 1 hosts two virtual machines named V VM1 and VM2 that run
Windows server. You need to inspect all the network traffic from VM1 to VM2 for
a period of 3 hours. The solution you provide is from Azure network watcher.
You create a packet capture. Does the solution meet the goal? You need to choose between yes or no. Network
watcher provides network monitoring and diagnostic capabilities in HR including
the ability to capture packet flowing between resources within a virtual
network. So yes, the statement or the solution is correct. Creating a packet
capture using AGR network watcher is a valid solution to inspect all the
network traffic from VM1 to VM2 for a specified team get.
Question number 119 of the series. You have a script that creates several VMs
with different images. When the script issues the command to create the first
VM, you do not want to block the script while the VM is created. Instead, you
want the script to immediately move on to the next command. What is the best way to do this? Your options are use the
amperand to run the process in the background. Add the no wait argument to
your create command. Add the async argument to your create command.
To avoid blocking this script while creating a virtual machine and immediately move on to the next command,
you should use the no wait argument with your create command.
This argument tells the Azure CLI or any other relevant tool you are using to
create VMs not to wait for the operation to complete and instead return control
to the script immediately. It allows you to continue executing other commands in the script while the VM creation process
happens in the background. Let's look at why other options are not correct. Using the amperand to run the
process in the background is typically used in shell scripting but may not be as straightforward or platform
independent as using the no argument which is designed for Azure CLI.
The async argument is also related to asynchronous operations but may not be
suitable for specific use cases of creating VMs. Question number 120 of the series. You
have an Azure subscription. You plan to deploy an Azure Kubernetes service AKS
cluster to support an app named app 1. Onremise clients connect to app 1 by
using the IP address of the pod. For the AKS cluster, you need to choose a
network type that will support app one. What should you choose? Your options are
hybrid connection endpoints, Azure private link, cubnet, Azure container
networking interface CNI. Let's look at first option first. Hybrid connection
endpoints are used for connecting onremise applications to resources in Azure securely. They are typically used
for integrating Azure services with onpremise services. This option is
unrelated to configuring networking within an AKS cluster to support direct access to pods by onremise clients. So
an incorrect choice. Second option, Azure private link is used to access
Azure services privately over a private endpoint in your virtual network. It is
often used for scenarios where you want to access Azure services privately such
as Azure SQL database or Azure storage. While it provides a secure and private
connection, it is not designed for directly accessing individual parts within an AKS cluster from onremise
clients, making it an imperfect choice. Here the third option, cubeet is a basic
networking mode for AKS that provides a simple and lowcost networking solution.
In cubeet, each node in the AKS cluster gets an IP address and pods share the
node's IP address. This mode is not suitable for scenarios where you need to have direct connectivity to individual
parts as parts do not have their own dedicated IP address.
This leaves us with final option as your CNI which is the correct choice here. To
support an app where onremise clients connect to the pods in the AKS cluster using the IP address of the pod, you
should choose the Azure container networking interface as the network type. Azure CNI allows each pod in the
AKS cluster to have its own IP address which makes it easier to interact with
the pods directly using their IP address. This is particularly useful when you have onremise clients
connecting to the pods within the AKS cluster. You have an AGR subscription named
subscription one. Subscription one contains the resources in the following table. The resources with the name RG1
and RG2 are resource group type. And then you have two resources named VNET 1 and VNET 2 which are virtual network
type. VNET 1 is in RG1. VNET 2 is in RG2. And there is no connectivity
between VNET 1 and VNET 2. An administrator named admin 1 creates an
Azure virtual machine named VM1 in RG1. VM1 uses a disk named disk 1 and
connects to VNET 1. Admin 1 then installs a custom application in VM1.
You need to move the custom application to VNET 2 and the solution must minimize
administrative effort. Which two actions should you perform to answer? You need
to select the appropriate answer among the options provided. Now the options are on your screen.
the first action and the second action. The options you have are detach a virtual interface network interface,
delete VM1, create a network interface in RG2 and then move a network interface
to RG2. Then the second action you have the options as attach a network interface, move VM1 to RG2, create a
network interface in RG2 and create a new virtual machine. Now you can change
the subnet of a VM uh subnet a VM is connected to after it has been created
but you cannot change its vinet. So what you need to do here is identify the disk
used by the VM1 which is disk one in this case. You delete the VM1 itself
while ensuring disk one is retained and then recreate the VM in the target
virtual network VNET 2 and attach the original disk disk one to it.
So for the first section you will delete the VM1 and for the second action you will create a new virtual machine.
Obviously the steps that I explained just now were in detail but for the scope of this question the first action
would be delete VM1 and the second action would be create a new virtual machine but before deleting it you need
to retain disk one back it up and then when you have created a new virtual machine you need to attach this one to
it so that your application and data everything is retained. Let's look at next question. You have an
Azure subscription that contains an Azure storage account named storage one.
You export storage account one as an Azure resource manager template. The
template contains the following sections which you can see on the right hand side of your screen. Now for you need to go
through this template and then answer the questions. For each of the following statements you need to select if yes if
the statement is true otherwise you will be selecting no. Now the first statement is a server that has a public IP address
of 13173.10 can access storage one. Now you can see
in the ARM template virtual network rules and IP rules are blank in the network ACL's element
and the default action is allow. So yes, this statement is correct. A server that
has a public IP address of 131.17.13.10
can access storage account one. And in fact, since there are no IP rules
mentioned in this ARM template, so for the scope of this question, IP address doesn't really matter at all. Even if
there was a different IP address, the answer or the statement would still have been true. Next statement,
individual blobs in a storage account one can be set to use the archive tier.
The kind of storage here is storage v2 which allows steering. So even though
storage account access tier is set to hot, which you can see at the bottom of the screen, but you can set individual
blobs to use archive tier because the storage account type is storage v2.
Third statement, global administrators in Azure Active Directory can access a
file share hosted in storage account one by using their Azure AD credentials.
Azure AD roles like global administrator don't provide access to individual resources. So this statement is
incorrect. You will need to use arc roles to grant access being talked about here.
Let's look at next question. You have a pay as you go Azure subscription that
contains the virtual machines shown in the following table. There are two virtual machines with the name of VM1
and VM2. They are hosted in resource group RG1 and RG2 and they have a daily cost defined. Uh VM1 uses uh a daily
cost of $20 and a VM2 uses the daily cost of $30. You create the budget shown
in the exhibit below which is on the bottom right of your screen. The AG1
action group contains a user named admin one at kadoso.com only.
Select the answer choice that completes each statement based on the information presented in the graphic. So before we
move to the question, let's look at the uh graphic. The name of the budget is budget one. the scope of the budget is
RG1 resource group and you would see that because the scope of RG1 because
because the scope of this budget is RG1 and you can see only VM1 is hosted in
RG1. So this budget would only apply to VM1. That is the first thing you should
note when answering such questions. Now the budget is set to $1,000 and the
budget period resets every month. So the $1,000 is the budget for every month.
It's not like the budget this $1,000 is uh the budget for the whole start to end
date. So it resets every month. And now the alert conditions are when the 50% of
budget is reached which is $500 the action group basically sends a
email. When 70% is reached then a SMS is sent and when 100% is reached an Azure
app is triggered. and the alert recipients are user one at kontoso.com.
Now let's look at the statements. When the maximum amount in budget one is
reached, what will happen? Your options are VM1 and VM2 continue to run, VM1 and
VM2 are turned off, VM1 is turned off and VM2 continues to run.
When the budget thresholds are reached which you have created only
notifications are triggered. None of the resources are affected and consumption
isn't stopped. So both the VMs will continue to run in this case.
Now the next statement is based on the current usage cost of the virtual machines. The options are no email
notifications will be sent each month. One email notification will be sent each
month. Two email notifications will be sent each month. Three email notifications will be sent each month.
Now when we were looking at the budget, I did mention the scope of budget one is RG1 and RG1 only contains VM1. That's
the thing here. And you could see the VM1 consumes $20 per day. Then the 50%
which is $500 limit will be reached in 25 days and an email will be sent which
makes it one email in a month. Then the 70% and 100% alert conditions will not
be reached within a month because after 30 days the counter will reset. So they
won't trigger any email action in any case because the action was SMS or uh an
app. So the correct answer here is only one email notification will be sent each
month. Whenever you have questions related to budget, you need to break down the figures and then calculate what
action will happen whenever a certain condition is met.
Question number 124 of the series. You onboard 10 Azure virtual machines to
Azure automation state configuration and you need to use Azure automation state
configuration to manage the ongoing consistency of the virtual machine configurations. Which three actions
should you perform in sequence? Your options are create a management group.
Check the compliance status of the node. Assign tags to the virtual machines.
Compile configuration into node configuration. Import configuration to
Azure automation state configuration. And the correct sequence is now on your
screen. First of all, you will import configuration to Azure automation state configuration. Then you will compile the
configuration into node configuration. And then you will check the compliance status of the node.
Next question. You have an AGR subscription that contains the resources as shown below. Resource name is MG1
which is management group type. Then the second resource is RG1 which is resource group type. And then you have a GUID
which is a subscription ID. And then you have a resource called as tag one which is tag type. In Azure cloud shell you
need to create a virtual machine by using an Azure resource manager template. How should you complete the
command? The command is now first of all you have a variable which is called as dollar admin password. And in dollar
admin password what you are doing is read host is to uh in PowerShell read host is to get a prompt from user. You
you need to input something. There is a prompt and the prompt says enter the admin password and it is passed as a
secure string because it is obviously password. So you cannot pass it as a plain text. Therefore you have converted
it to as a secure string. Now, now starts the next command. You have four
options. First, your options are new a resource, new a template spec, new avm,
new a resource group deployment. Then you have the next four options. Dash tag
is tag one, dash group name is mg1, dash resource group name is RG1 subscription.
Then you have the subscription go. Then you for then you proceed next in the
command where you have template URI where uh uh a URL of GitHub has been
mentioned and then the admin username is local admin and admin password is the
variable that you created. Then the DNS level is test VM1. Now from the table
you can see resource group one RG1 already exists. So you would be deploying a VM using a ARM template in
an existing resource group using the commandlet new- a resource group
deployment. Basically you would be doing a deployment into an existing resource group. So so obviously you'll choose
new- a resource group deployment in the first dropdown and and resource group
name RG1 in the second dropdown. Now you would be tempted to use new-azvm
in the first drop-down but you cannot use new new-vm as this command l doesn't accept the
template URI parameter. So you need to look at whole scenario in question which is to create a VM using ARM template
rather than focusing on creating the VM which is the key to answer this question.
Let's look at next question. You have the Azure virtual networks shown in the following table.
The there are basically four virtual networks with VNET 1, VNET 2, VNET 3,
VNET 4 and then there and they their address spaces, subnets are mentioned
and the regions where they are hosted. You can see the virtual networks are hosted in different Azure regions. And
when it comes to uh VNET peering uh HR allows peering across regions as well.
So uh you should know this while answering this question. Now the question is from VNET 2. Which virtual
networks can you establish a peering connection with? Your options are VNET 1
only, VNET 1 and VM3 only, VNET 3 and VNET 4 only, VNET 1, 2, sorry, VNET 1, 3
and four. Key thing to answer this question is virtual network peering cannot have
overlapping address spaces. So if you look at VNET 2 and VNET 4, we can
immediately say there will be overlap in the IP address. So you can rule out any option which has VNET
four in it. This leaves us with option A and option B. VNET 2 can peer with VNET
one due to the difference in name space but it can also peer with VNET 3. So we
will rule out option A and choose option B as the correct choice. Even though
option A is also right but the question does have a option where two of the
VNETs are right option. So you need to choose that option because the question
specifically asks which virtual network. So if you choose option A which is VNET one only that would be an incorrect
choice because the peering can happen with VNET 3 as well.
Let's look at next question. You have a Azure virtual network named VNET one that contains a subnet named
subnet one. Subnet one contains three Azure virtual machines and each virtual
machine has a public IP address. The virtual machines host several applications that are accessible over
port 443 to users on the internet. Your onremise network has a side toight VPN
connection to VNET one and you discover that the VMs can be accessed over RDP
from internet and from onremise network as well. This is really not a good practice that your VMs are accessible
over RDP from internet. So you need to prevent RDP access to the virtual
machines from the internet which is what is the best practice unless the RDP connection is established from the
on-premise network. The solution must ensure that all the applications can still be accessed by internet users. How
can you achieve this requirement? So your application needs to be accessible
to users over internet but through HTTPS protocol which is over port 443 but it
shouldn't be accessible to users over port 3389 which is the RDP port here. So
I hope this clarifies what is the requirement of the question. Now let's look at what are the options available.
You create a deny rule in a network security group NSG that is linked to subnet one. You modify the address space
of subnet one. You modify the address space of the local network gateway. You
remove the public IP address from the virtual machines. To achieve this requirement, you should
create a deny rule in the network security group that is linked to subnet one, which is option A. You can create a
network security group rule in Azure that denies incoming RDP traffic from the internet while still allowing the
necessary application traffic. You might be tempted to use option D here which is
to remove public IP addresses from VM but it will prevent all external access including access from the on-premise
network and internet users which is not in line with the requirement of allowing access from onremise network while still
permitting access to the applications from the internet which is why option A is the correct choice here.
Question number 128 of the series. You have an Azure subscription that contains two onremise locations named site one
and site two. You need to connect site one and site two by using an Azure virtual van. Which of the following four
actions should you perform in sequence? Your options are create a virtual van
resource, create VPN sites, connect the VPN sites to the hub, create a virtual
hub, connect the virtual networks to the hub, and the correct options are now on your
screen. You would first create a virtual van resource. You would then create a virtual hub followed by creating VPN
sites and finally connect the VPN sites to the hub. Remaining option number
five, connect the virtual networks to the hub is also part of creating a sight to-sight connection using Azure virtual
van. However, it is later in the process and the question talks about four actions in sequence. So, it has been
excluded. So always pay attention to what has been asked in the question rather than just
uh relying on the facts that uh the option which has been excluded is still uh a
valid option when you are configuring Azure virtual van but obviously the
question talks about just four options. So that's why it has been excluded.
You have an Azure subscription. Users access the resources in the subscription
from either home or from computer sites. From home, users must establish a
pointto-sightVPN to access the Azure resources. The users on the computer
sites access the Azure resources by using sight toightVPNs. You have a line
of business app named app one that runs on several Azure virtual machines. The
virtual machines run Windows Server 2019. You need to ensure that the connections
to app one are spread across all the virtual machines. What are two possible
Azure services that you can use? You need to ensure that the connections are
spread across multiple virtual machines. So there is a talk about load balancing
here. Now the options that are available to you are traffic manager, public load
balancer, Azure content delivery network, Azure application gateway and
internal load balancers. Remember you need to choose two possible choices here. The two possible Azure services
that can be used to spread connection to app one across all virtual machines would be Azure application gateway and
internal load balancer. When there is a talk about uh uh distributing the connections, you should always remember
there is a talk about load balancing. So Azure application gateway can be used
to route incoming traffic to virtual machines based on various routing rules including URL path based routing cookie
based session affinity and SSL offloading. It is a layer 7 load balancer that can be used for both
internal and external traffic. Now the internal load balancer can be used to
distribute incoming traffic to virtual machines in a backend pool based on various routing rules and health probes.
It is a layer 4 load balancer that is used for internal traffic within a virtual network which is what is being
asked here. That's the reason why you have chosen internal load balancer and not public load balancer. I hope friend
this friends this clarifies why we have not chosen public load balancer. If you have any doubts, post them in the
comment section and I'll try to explain your queries as soon as possible.
Question number 130 of the series. You configure the custom role shown in the following exhibit. Now, in front of you
is a role. Basically, it's uh it's a JSON format of a role. The role name is
role one and its description is custom role one. uh the assignable scope is set
to a subscription which is uh a subscription ID is mentioned in the uh in the exhibit and then you there are
permissions defined in the actions section of the permission element. There are multiple permissions which are
defined here which are related to compute network support and so on. Then there are other sections which are not
actions, data actions and not data actions. All are left blank. Let's now look at the questions. The questions
you'll get now would be focused on this exhibit which you just saw.
So use the drop-own menus to select the answer choice that completes each statement based on the information
presented in the exhibit. The first statement is to ensure that users can
sign into virtual machines that are assigned role one modify the which
section. Now the sections you would have seen which I just mentioned assignable scope actions not actions data actions
not data actions to ensure that users can sign into virtual machines that are assigned role
one you need to modify the data actions section in the custom role definition JSON
you should add the Microsoft compute/verirtual machines/lo
action to the actions which will allow login to the virtual machine as a
regular user. This change will look like what I have shown on the screen in the red section. You can see in the data
actions I have added this uh module Microsoft.computee definition which I
just spoke about. Now let's look at the next statement to ensure that role one
can be assigned only to a resource group named RG1. Modify with section
to ensure that a custom role role one can be assigned only to a resource group named RG1. You should modify the
assignable scope section in the custom role definition JSON. At the moment scope is set to everything
in the listed subscription. So you would modify it to resource group level something like I have shown on this
screen in red section. You will append resource group there and then you will uh you will drill it down to the
resource group that you want to apply. Earlier it was applied at the subscription level which means it was
applicable to everything which was uh within that subscription but now you
have reduced the scope. You have done an implicit assignment of
the role. Let's look at next question. You have an Azure subscription that contains a
virtual machine named VM1 and an Azure key world named KB1. You need to
configure encryption for VM1. The solution must meet the following requirements. Now the requirements are
manage maintain encryption if VM1 is downloaded from Azure. Encrypt both the
operating system disk and the data disks. Store and use the encryption key in KV1. Which encryption methods should
you use? Your options are Azure disk encryption, customer managed keys,
confidential disk encryption, encryption at host. You should use Azure disk
encryption to meet the specified requirements. Azure disk encryption is the appropriate encryption method that
allows you to encrypt both the operating system disk and data disks of a virtual machine while also storing and using the
encryption key in Azure key which is the requirement in this question. It
covers all the three requirements. The solution ensures that the VM disks are encrypted and the encryption keys are
securely stored in a Azure key wall. Additionally, the encryption remains intact if the virtual machine is
downloaded from Azure, making it a suitable choice for this scenario.
Question number 132 of the series. You have an Azure subscription that contains
a storage account named storage one. Subscription one is linked to an Azure
AD tenant named Ktoso.com that syncs to an onpremise active directory domain.
The domain contains the security principles shown in the following table. Now the principles are pretty
straightforward. You have a user named user one. You have a computer named computer one. In Azure AD, you create a
user named user 2. Storage accounts contain a file share named share one and
has the following configurations. The kind is defined as storage v2 and you
can see in the properties the Azure files identity based authentication is being used. Directory services option is
defined as ad and the active directory properties are defined as domain name,
netbas domain name and forest name are all pondso.com. Let's now look at the next part of the
question which will be based on this exhibit. For each of the following statements,
select yes if the statement is true. Otherwise, select no. First statement is
you can assign the storage file data SMB share reader role to computer one for
share one. No, this is incorrect. You cannot do
that. Next statement is you can assign the storage file data SMB share contributor
role to user one for share one. Yes, this statement is correct and you
should be able to do it. You have 10 Azure subscriptions. You
have an Azure Active Directory tenant that contains a security group named group one and you plan to purchase
additional Azure subscriptions. You need to ensure that group one can manage role
assignments for the existing subscriptions and the planned subscriptions. The solution must meet
the following requirements. You need to use the principle of lease privilege and you need to minimize administrative
effort. What should you do? Your options are create a management new management
group and assign group one the user access administrator role for the group.
Create a new management group and assign group one the owner role for the group.
Assign group one the owner role for the root management group. Assign group one
the user access administrator role for the root management group. And the
correct answer here would be option D. Assign group one the user access administrator role for the root
management group. Assigning the user access administrator role to the root manager management
group for group one will provide the necessary permissions for for group one to manage role assignments for all
existing and planned subscriptions while also adhering to the principle of least
privilege. This option also minimizes administrative effort as it only requires a single assignment.
So the key thing here is you need to keep in mind the requirements that are
mentioned in the question while choosing the appropriate options. Now you might be tempted to choose option A here but
it increases the administrative effort as you first need to create a management group and then next is you can't be sure
that new subscriptions will be added to the same management group. So this approach might allow you to manage
existing subscriptions but not necessarily work for future or planned subscriptions.
Question number 134 of the series. You have an AGR subscription that contains
two virtual machines as shown in the following table. Now the virtual machines are named as VM1 and VM2. VM1
is uh Windows Server 2022 operating system based and VM2 is Windows Server
2019 operating system based. Both of the VMs are hosted in East US zone and their
DNS server is default which is provided by Azure. The IP address of VM1 is
10.0.0.4 and the IP address of VM2 is 10.0.0.5.
You perform a reverse DNS lookup for 10.0 0.0.4 from VM2. Basically, you are performing
a reverse lookup for VM1 from VM2. Which FQDN will be returned? Your options are
VM1.us.cloudapp.aggr.com, VM1.core.windows.net,
VM1.cloudapp.net, vm1.gr.com.
Now, Azure managed reverse DNS records of form
VM name.cloudapp.net are automatically added to when you
start a VM and removed when the VM is stopped or deallocated. So, the correct
answer here is option C. VM1.in internal.cloudapp.net.
Next question. You plan to deploy routebased sightto-sightVPN connections
between several on-premise locations and an Azure virtual network. Which
tunneling protocol should you use? Your options are PPTP, IKEV1, IKEEV2, L2P.
When deploying route based side to-sight VPN connections between on-premise locations and an Azure virtual network,
it is recommended to use IKEV2 which is internet key exchange version two as the
tunneling protocol. Ikev2 is a more secure and modern protocol compared to IKE V1 and it
offers better performance, improved security features and better handling of network changes making it a preferred
choice for many VPN deployments. You have an Azure subscription that
contains the hierarchy shown in the following exhibit. You create an Azure policy definition named policy 1. To
which Azure resources can you assign policy one and which Azure resources can you specify as exclusions from policy
one? Now on the right hand side of the screen you have an exhibit where you can see at the top you have a tenant root
group then followed by a management group one under it you have a subscription one and then it is having
RG1 at the bottom the resource is virtual machine one. Now the first statement is you can apply
policy to either subscription one and RG1 only, management group one and
subscription one only, tenant root group, management group and subscription one only, tenant root group, management
group one, subscription one and RG1 only, either all of them which is tenant root group, management group one,
subscription one, RG1 and VM1. policy definition or initiative can be
assigned to any scope of resources that Azure supports such as management groups, subscriptions, resource groups
or individual resources. So the correct answer is last option here. You should be able to apply to tenant root group,
management group one, subscription one, RG1 and VM1.
Now the next statement was which ones can be excluded from policy 1. The
options are same. You can't exclude the highest scope during assignment as it
will exclude everything. So the correct answer here is option four. You can assign it to you can you can exclude the
policy one from management group one, subscription one, RG1 and VM1 only.
So folks, if you are unaware about hierarchy in Azure, then I already have a detailed video around it on the
channel. Check out that to understand this in more detail.
Question number 137 of the series. You have an Azure app service web app named
app 1. You plan to deploy app 1 by using web deploy. You need to ensure that the
developers of app 1 can use their Azure AD credentials to deploy content to app
1. The solution must use the principle of least privilege. What should you do?
Your options are configure user level credentials for FTPS, configure app
level credentials for FTPS, assign the owner role to the developers,
assign the website contributor role to the developers. You should assign the website
contributor role to the developers. In this case, this role allows user to
manage the app service which includes deploying content without granting unnecessary permissions. Assigning the
owner role which is option C would give the developers full access to the entire
Azure subscription and is not aligned with the principle of lease privilege.
Before I continue, I would like to remind you that we now have channel memberships available. By becoming a
member, you will gain access to exclusive videos, PDFs, private chat rooms, and career consultations. If you
are seeking guidance or want more insights into the study material, consider joining the membership that
suits your needs. Question number 138 of the series. You
have an Azure virtual machine named VM1 that runs Windows Server 2016. You need
to create an alert in Azure when more than two errors events are logged to the
system event log on VM1 within an hour. The solution you provide is you create
an Azure log analytics workspace and configure the data settings. You then install the Microsoft monitoring agent
on VM1. You create an alert in Azure monitor and specify the log analytics
workspace as the source. You need to tell whether this solution meets the goal.
Yes, the solution definitely meets the goal. This is how you should create an alert for this scenario.
Next question. You have an Azure subscription that contains a storage account named storage one. You plan to
use conditions when assigning rolebased access control roles to storage one. Which of the following storage one
services support conditions when assigning roles? Your options are Q's,
fileshares, containers, tables, fileshares and tables only, containers
and cues only. Currently conditions can be added to built-in or custom role assignments that
have blob storage or Q storage data actions. So the correct answer is option F containers and Q's only.
You have an Azure subscription named subscription one that contains the kotas shown in the following table. Now the
kotas are standard DS family virtual CPUs, standard D family virtual CPUs.
Both of them are hosted in East Europe location and are assigned a kota of 20
virtual CPUs. The total regional CPUs of East Europe are also defined as 20
virtual CPUs. You deploy virtual machines to subscription one as shown in the following table. Now you have
deployed two virtual machines with the name of VM1 and VM2. Both are of size
standard B2ms and standard B16 mms. They are consuming two and 16 virtual CPUs
respectively. Both of them again are hosted in East Europe region. For one of them which is VM1, the status is running
and for VM2 the status is stopped deallocated. Now you're planning to deploy the virtual machines shown in the
following table. Basically you are planning to deploy three more virtual machines and the CPU requirements for
them is 1 4 and 16. Now the questions that you'll see now will be based on
virtual CPUs and whether you can deploy these three VMs being talked about here
or not. The key thing to note here is for East Europe region you have a kota
of 20 virtual CPUs. So that's the maximum virtual CPUs you can consume at a given time. Let's now look at the
statements. Your first statement is you can deploy VM3 to East Europe.
VM1 is planned to use one virtual CPU which when combined with uh VM1 and VM2
will add to 19 virtual CPUs which is less than the limit of 20 CPUs. So you
can deploy it. The next statement is you can deploy VM4
to East Europe. VM4 as per the table is going to consume four virtual CPUs. So
it will equate to a total of 23 CPUs. So you cannot deploy VM4 because you can at
a time only use 20 virtual CPUs. The third statement is you can deploy
VM5 to East Europe. You might have noticed VM2 was in stopped deallocated
state but stopped VM will consume virtual CPU. So the state of virtual machine doesn't matter for the scope of
this question. VM5 will use 16 virtual CPUs. So you can't deploy it in any
case. Friends, if you are enjoying the content
and finding it helpful, please consider giving this video a like and subscribing to the channel. Your support helps reach
a broader audience and benefits everyone. Question number 141 of the series. You
have an Azure subscription that contains the resources shown in the following table.
Now the resources are you have two resource groups with the name of RG1 and RG2. They are hosted in location
Australia East and Australia Central. Then you have a virtual machine scale set with the name of VMSSS1 which is
hosted in RG2 and is in location Australia central. Then you have three
proximity placement groups with the name of proximity 1 2 and three. They are
using either RG1 or RG2 and they are hosted in Australia central and Australia east respectively. You need to
configure a proximity placement group for VMSSS1 which is virtual machine scale set. Which proximity placement
groups should you use? Your options are proximity one only, proximity 2 only,
proximity 1 and proximity three only or all of them which is proximity 1 2 and
3. Proximity placement group should be in same region as the resource. So the
correct answer here is option B proximity 2 only as virtual machine
scale set and proximity 2 are both hosted in Australia central region.
Let's look at next question. You have an Azure subscription that contains an Azure file share. You have an onpremise
server named server 1 that runs Windows Server 2016. You plan to set up Azure
file sync between server one and the Azure file share. You need to prepare the subscription for the planned Azure
file sync. Which two actions should you perform in the Azure subscription? The key word here is Azure subscriptions.
The action should be performed in the Azure subscription. The options are run
server registration, create a storage sync service, install the Azure file
sync agent, create a sync group. As I said, key to answer this question
is to tell the activities that are performed in the subscription and not on the onremise server. The two activities
that will be performed in the subscription would be option B and option D. Create a storage sync service
and create a sync group. Creating a storage sync service is used to manage
the synchronization between your onremise server and the Azure file share. Whereas creating a sync group
involves defining the sync topology and specifying which onremise servers and Azure file shares should be
synchronized. This is part one 143 of the series. You
have an Microsoft Entra ID tenant named Kontoso.com that contains the users
shown in the following table. Now you have five users with the name of user 1 2 3 A and B out of which three users are
member type and two users are guest type. The member types are user one, user three and user A. Whereas the guest
type are user two and user B. User one and user two are members of group one.
User A and user B are members of group B and user three is not any member of any
of the group. User three is the owner of group one. Group two is a member of
group one. So there is a nesting of groups being talked about here. You configure an access review named review
one shown in the exhibit on the next screen. On the next screen you will have a screenshot of a exhibit of access
review named review one that was created and then you will have some statements.
So for each of the following statements you need to select yes if the statement is true otherwise you need to select no.
Now exhibit is there on the right hand side of your screen and first statement is user three can perform an access
review of user A. Now in the previous table you would have seen user A is a member type and scope
of this access review is guest only. So user three cannot perform access
review of user A and the statement is incorrect.
So the next statement is user three can perform an access review of user B. User
B is guest type and scope of this access review is guest only. So user three can
perform access review of user B and this statement is correct.
Let's look at statement third. User three can perform an access review of
user one. As you could you could see in the table user one is a member type similar to
user A. And as already mentioned this access review is scoped to guest users
only. So user three cannot perform access review of user one and this statement is incorrect.
So folks while answering this question you need to look at two aspects. One is the exhibit which is on your screen
where you can clearly see that the scope is defined as guest user only and other
option is everyone. So if everyone was chosen then the uh then the scope of
this access review would have been to guest users and members as well. But here the scope that has been chosen is
guest users only. So that's the reason why any user which you could see in the
table on the first screen was a guest user its review could be performed.
Whereas if the user was a member type its review can couldn't be performed. So you need to keep in mind the access
review exhibit that is on your screen and the table of the user type given
while answering this question. Let's look at question number 144. You have an
Azure subscription named subscription one that contains an Azure virtual machine named VM1. VM1 is in a resource
group named RG1. VM1 runs services that will be used to deploy resources to RG1.
You need to ensure that a service running on VM1 can manage the resources in RG1 by using the identity of VM1.
What should you do first? Here we are talking about managing the resources
using the identity of a virtual machine. So that should pretty much tell you what
we are talking about. But let's look at the options which are given here. So the options are from the Azure portal modify
the access control IM settings of RG1. From the Azure portal modify the policy
settings of RG1. From the Azure portal modify the managed identity settings of
VM1. From the Azure portal modify the access control settings of VM1.
And the correct answer here would be from the Azure portal. Modify the managed identity settings of VM1.
Managed identity allows Azure resources such as virtual machines to obtain an
identity that can be used to authenticate and authorize against other Azure resources.
By enabling managed identity for VM, you can grant the necessary permissions to the service running on VM1 to manage
resources in RG1 without exposing any sensitive credentials.
So this basically enables you to perform your task seamlessly without having the
need to maybe store credentials in a text file on in the VM which which can
obviously lead to exposure of the credentials. So uh whenever you are using managed identities, it enables you
to do things securely and uh the service can manage things automatically.
Next question. You need to ensure that an Azure Active Directory user named
admin 1 is assigned the required role to enable traffic analytics for an Azure
subscription. So folks here in the question you can see Azure Active Directory mentioned here. However,
Microsoft has recently changed the name of Azure Active Directory and it is known as Intra ID. Now so there can be
some questions where I have mentioned Azure Active Directory. There can be some questions where you will see enter
ID but in from the exam perspective because the name has already changed you should be seeing the new name where
which is enter ID. So the solution you tell is you assign the traffic manager
contributor role at the subscription level to admin one. Does this solution meet the goal? You need to choose
between yes or no. The traffic manager contributor role is
related to Azure traffic manager which is a DNS-based traffic load balancer
service and it is used for managing and controlling Azure traffic manager resources. It does not provide the
necessary permission to enable traffic analytics. So this is a incorrect solution. To enable traffic analytics
for an Azure subscription, you typically need to assign a role related to network and monitoring capabilities.
Common roles that might be relevant for enabling traffic analytics include
network contributor or custom roles with the necessary permissions to work with network traffic analytics.
Let's look at next question. You have two Azure virtual machines named VM1 and
VM2 and you have two recovery services vaults named RSV1 and RSV2. VM2 is
backed up to RSV1 and you need to back up VM2 to RSV2. What should you do
first? So basically VM2 is backed up to RSV1 at the moment but you need to
instead back it up to RSV2 going forward. So what is the step that you
need to do first to achieve this requirement. Now the options that have been given are from the RSV1
blade click backup jobs and export the VM2 job. From the RSV2 blade click
backup. From the backup blade, select the backup for the virtual machine and then click backup. From the RSV1 blade,
click backup items and stop the VM2 backup. From the VM2 blade, click
disaster recovery. Click replication settings and then select RSV2 as the
recovery services vault. And the correct answer here would be from the RSV1 blade, click backup backup
items and stop the VM2 backup. Now why you would do this? When you back up a VM
to a recovery services vault, the backup is stored in that vault. You cannot have
the same virtual machine backed up to two different vaults. In order to back up VM2 to RSV2, you first need to stop
the backup of VM2 from RSV1. Once the backup is stopped, you can then create a
new backup job for VM2 to be backed up in RSV2. That is the reason you need to first
stop the VM2 backup and then you will create a new backup job to back up VM2
to the new recovery services vault. Question number 147 of the series. You
have an Azure subscription that contains the resources shown in the following table. Now you have three resources with
the name of storage one, container one and table one where storage one is a
storage account. Container one is a block container and table one is a storage table. You need to perform the
tasks shown in the following table. Now the tasks are the first task is you need to create a new storage account. Second
task is you upload and append blob to container one. Third task is to create a
file share in the storage one. And fourth task is to add data to table one.
Now both the tables are on your screen for the for ease of your answering the
question and the question is which tasks can you perform by using Azure storage
explorer? To answer this question you should first know what is Azure storage explorer.
Now the options are task one and task three only, task one, two and three
only. Task 1, three, and four only. Task 2, three, and four only. And task 1, 2,
3, and four. Azure storage explorer does not have the
ability to create a new storage account directly. Instead, you can use Azure storage explorer to connect to and
manage existing storage in Azure. So, the correct option is option D, task 2,
three, and four. You can upload an append blob to container, create a file share in container and add data to table
using Azure storage explorer. The only thing you cannot do here is create a new
storage account which is task one.
You have three Azure subscriptions named sub sub 1, sub 2 and sub 3 that are
linked to an intra ID tenant. So folks, if you don't know what is Enra ID tenant, we are talking about an Azure AD
tenant. As I mentioned previously, the Azure AD has been renamed to Enter ID.
The tenant contains a user named user one, a security group named group one
and a management group named MG1. User one is a member of group one. Sub
one and sub 2 are members of MG1. Sub one contains a resource group named
RG1. RG1 contains five Azure functions. You create the following role
assignments for MG1. The role assignments are group one has got the
reader role and user one has got user access administrator role.
Further you assign user one the virtual machine contributor role for sub one and
sub 2. For each of the following statements, you need to select if the statement is
true. Otherwise, you need to select no. And the first statement is user one can
assign the owner role for RG1. As a user access manage uh user access
administrator for MG1. User one can manage access to all resources in the
management group. This includes assigning any role including the owner role to any resource within MG1 which
includes RG1. So the statement is correct.
User one can assign the owner role for RG1. So folks this question is very confusing
because it is telling you a lot of hierarchy that uh a subscript there are three subscriptions which are linked to
a management group and then there are reader role being talked about then user
access administrator role and then finally user one gets virtual machine contributor role as well. So while
answering such type of questions create a mapping create a flowchart in your in your mind that this is the flow of the
roles that is being talked about here. It will make it very easy for you to answer such questions.
Let's look at next statement here. The group one members can review the configurations of the Azure functions.
Now group one members you can see have reader access at the management group level. So they can view all resources in
the management group including the Azure functions in RG1
making this statement correct as well. Again you you you could see if you have made that flowchart in your mind it is
very easy to answer this question. If you try to answer it without creating
that flowchart then it will be very hard for you to answer such questions because of the availability of so much data and
hierarchy. Third statement is user one can create a
new resource group and deploy a virtual machine to the new group. The virtual machine contributor role allows users to
manage virtual machines but it does not provide permissions to create new resource group. So this statement is
incorrect. User one cannot create a new resource group and deploy a virtual machine to that group.
Again you could see the second last line of the question says you assign user one
the virtual machine contributor role and that was the key to answer this third
statement whether it was right or wrong. Question number 149 of the series. You
have an Azure subscription named subscription one that contains two Azure virtual networks named VNET 1 and VNET
2. VNET 1 contains a VPN gateway named VPN GW1 that uses static routing. There
is a siteto-sightVPN connection between your onremise network and VNET 1. On a
computer named client one that runs Windows 10, you configure a pointto-sightVPN connection to VNET 1.
So you have a sight to-sightVPN connection between your on-premise client and VNET 1. And then on a
computer named computer client one that runs Windows 10, you configure a
pointto-sightVPN connection to VNET 1. You configure virtual network peering
between VNET 1 and VNET 2. You verify that you can connect to VNET 2 from the
onremise network. Client one is unable to connect to VNET 2. You need to ensure
that you can connect client one to vinet 2. Basically client one is not able to
connect to vnet 2 at this point and you need to ensure that client one can connect to vinet 2. What should you do
in this requirement? Your options are select allow gateway transit to vinet 2.
Download and reinstall the VPN client configuration package on client one. Enable BGP on VPN GW1. Select allow
gateway transit on VNET one. The VPN client on the PC is not valid now
because the network topology has changed in this case and whenever such changes
happen then the VPN client package for Windows client must be downloaded and installed again and you need to use to
ensure you use the same certificate. So the correct answer here is option B. You
need to download and reinstall the VPN client configuration package on client one again.
Question number 150 of the series. You have five Azure virtual machines that run Windows Server 2019.
The virtual machines are configured as web servers. You have an Azure load balancer named LB1 that provides load
balancing services for the virtual machines. You need to ensure that visitors are serviced by the same web
server for each request. What should you configure? So you have five virtual
machines behind an Azure load balancer which they have named as LB1. You need
to ensure whenever someone visits the site, their request is serviced by the
same web server. What should you configure to achieve this requirement? Your options are
protocol to UDP, session persistence to client IP and protocol, floating IP to
enable, session persistence to none. So basically here they're talking about
the first option says you need you configure the protocol to be as UDP and
then the second option says you configure session persistence to client IP and protocol. Then on third option
floating IP is getting enabled. And on the fourth option which is again related
to SE session persistence you are setting it to none to ensure that visitors are serviced by the same web
server for each request. You should configure session persistence. In this scenario you should configure session
persistence to client IP and protocol. This will ensure that each visitor's
request are directed to same web server for the duration of their session based on their IP address and the protocol
they are using. This configuration helps maintain session state for clients and ensures that their requests are
consistently directed to the same web server which can be important for maintaining user sessions and providing
a consistent experience. With this I wrap up. Amazing work completing these
150 AZ4 practice questions. You have now sharpened your admin skills and taken a
solid step towards passing the HR administrator exam. But do not stop now.
This is just one part of our full practice question series with 400 plus
questions covering all exam domains. Continue with the next parts to make sure you are fully prepared on every
topic. If this session helped you, please like, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss the
upcoming videos. Got doubts or want a deeper explanation? Drop your questions
in the comments. I'm right here to support your learning journey. Stay consistent, keep practicing, and I'll
see you in the next part. Let's conquer AZ 104
